Carbondale Free Press
Carbondale
Illinois

THE IVORY CITY IS NOW DESERTED

Final close of the Great Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

Has passed into history.

At Twelve O'Clock Thursday Night President Francis Touched the Button That Stilled the Heart-Throb of the White Ciity.

St. Louis, Dec. 2 - the great Louisiana Purchase exposition has passed into history. At 12 o'clock Thursday night, President David R. Francis pressed the electric button that extinguished the illuminations and stilled the heart-throb of the great White city.

The night was one that will not soon be forgotten. The great promenade the Plaza of St. Louis was thronged with a gay multitude, and the water in the lagoon glowed silvery white, while well-modulated music flowed out upon the air, and swelled and sunk in melodious noise along the sloped glazier of the Cascades. The great floral clock chimed forth the hour of 12. Out went the thousand lights, and the band music crooned itself to sleep like a babe upon the white breast of its mother. The Ivory city has nestled to dreams. The great White city has lapsed into shadows and silence.

The Day an Eventful One.

"All St. Louis," and a part of Missouri, moved out to the grounds of the Louisiana Purchase exposition Thursday, to witness the closing of the greatest exposition the world has ever known, and to participate in the "Francis Day" exercises.

State and municipality officially took cognizance of the valiant service rendered by David R. Francis, President of the great exposition, to whose tireless energy is due no small part of the success that has crowned the most stupendous undertaking of the kind ever contemplated. Gov. Dockery and Mayor Wellls both issued proclamations making Francis Day a public holiday. Much of the glory that has come to Missouri and St. Louis is due to the efforts of David Francis, and the city and state united to do him honor.

As if in sympathy with the occasion, the day dawned warm and clear. The cold and frosty weather of the last few days was superseded by balmy breezes and the sun shone brightly. Business in the city was practically suspended. And the street cars that moved toward the great group of ivory palaces were crowded with humanity. The seats and aisles were filled in the platforms were crowded.

An Impromptu Reception.

President Francis was greeted with surprises when he reached his office. There he found his fellow officers of the exposition already assembled. The directors were there too. The room was tastily decorated and a great bouquet of American Beauty roses was laying across his mahogany desk, tied with a wide band of crimson ribbon.

An impromptu reception followed. Business was tabooed for the day. President Francis looked at the batch of papers on his desk that he was a custom to wade through the first thing on his arrival every morning. But the invasion of his office by the men who had assisted him in making the great exposition the success it was forbade any business being transacted.

At 10:30 o'clock President Francis and his party took carriages at the south door to the Administration building, and the procession moved to the Louisiana Purchase monument in the Plaza St. Louis where the closing exercises occurred. From the same stand that marked the opening exercises, the closing took place.

On Thursday, as then, great crowds of people lined the main transverse avenue, and with great enthusiasm greeted the president and his party. The things that President Francis promised them had come true. The people appreciated all he had done for his city and state and the citizens, and they were glad of the opportunity to honor him on Francis's day.

It was 11 o'clock when Mayor Rolla Wells, as chairman of the day, asked Rev. Dr. Samuel J. Niccolls to deliver the invocation. Surrounding President Franccis on the platform were many of the most distinguished men of the city and state. Gov. A. M. Dockery was present and made a short address, as did also Gov.-elect Joseph W. Folk.

The sun shone warm. The sunlight falling on the waters of the Cascades as they dashed madly down their course reflected to the glory of the exposition. The towering dome of the great Hall of Festivities gleamed in its ivory whiteness. The great gilded Victory that crowned the magnificent structure appeared as if anxious to step from his pedestal and lay the laurel wreath that he has borne ever since he assumed the proud position on the brow of the president of the greatest exposition the world has ever known. The great statue of peace that adorns the summit of the graceful Louisiana Purchase monument appeared to lean over and turn her eyes earthward to indorse the kind words that were spoken in behalf of President Francis by those who have worked with him for so long and who know better than anyone else the yeoman service he has performed for Missouri and for St. Louis.