The St. Louis Republic
St. Louis
Missouri

GREATEST FAIR IN WORLD'S HISTORY IS NOW BUT A NAME

President Francis Turns Key on Switchboard at Midnight in Presence of Large Assembly and as the Lights Fade Away the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Passes Out of Existence - St. Louis Pays Tribute to Man Who Made the Show Famous.

"Farewell, a long farewell, to all your splendor."

Paraphrasing Cardinal Wolsely's famous soliloqy, President Francis used these words, last midnight as he turned the lever that quenched the glowing lights on the World's Fair buildings and left all the site save the Pike in darkness.

The dramatic ceremony of closing the Fair promptly at midnight within the time named in the act of Congress, was performed by the President in the presence of the Board of Directors and an enormous throng that stood In the Plaza St. Louis.

President Francis stood at the base of Louisiana Monument, facing the Cascades and the glorious spectacle of Art Hill. Before him was a switch board. The turn of a single lever put the entire Exposition, save only the Pike, in shadow such as it knew before the opening of the World's Fair seven months ago.

The ceremonies of Francis Day began at 10 o'clock in the Plaza St. Louis, at the foot of the Louisiana Monument. 

President Francis was escorted to the monument by a parade of military and of the Exposition Directors, officials and employes.

The invocation was pronounced by the Reverend Doctor S. J. Niccolls. The meeting was called to order by Corwin H. Spencer. Major Wells presided. The Mayor, Governor Dockery and President Francis spoke.

Festus J. Wade, on behalf of the Directors, presented to Governor Francis a magnificent silver dinner service and a similar service to William H. Thompson. Mayor Wells pinned a huge badge upon the lapel of President Francis and invested him with a certificate stating that the grand prize of merit had been conferred upon him.

Immediately after this impressive ceremony, President Francis and the Directors went to the Tyrolean Alps, where the group remained in informal conversation until shortly after 1 o'clock. Mr. Norman E. Mack of Buffalo, who chanced to be present, proposed the health of President Francis as "the greatest of American citizens, save one." Festus J. Wade, in a brief talk, suggested the organization of a club to be made up of all who in any way contributed to the success of the Exposition, the title of the organization to be "The Million Club," its purpose the upbuilding of the city. After a few minutes the gathering came to an end with the singing of "Auld Lang Syne."

Following the formal exercises there was a last congress of the strange peoples of the world represented at the Fair.

The foreign and State Commissioners called in a body between 3 and 5 o'clock at the office of President Francis to pay their respects and in many cases their farewells. The dean of the foreign corps, Commissioner General Nuncio of Mexico, and Doctor Lewald of Germany, addressed President Francis on behalf of the Commissioners, and he responded.

At 5 o'clock President Francis and the Directors and Commissioners attended the reception of the Board of Lady Managers, given in honor of Francis Day.

A ride on top of the great Yellowstone coach closed the afternoon's programme.

Dinner, as the guest of Corwin H. Spencer, was served at the Tyrolean Alps at 6:30, and here the crowd gave the President an ovation and demanded a speech.

Passing down the Pike shortly before this hour, President Francis was received with an enthusiasm that was a positive ovation. This was repeated, even in a greater degree, about 10 p.m.

A chapter of glorious history for St. Louis was closed last midnight, when, in accordance with the law, but surely not with the wishes of the populace, the myriad lights of the World's Fair faded out forever and the greatest International exposition im history became but a name.

The "maddest, merriest day" in all the Exposition year closed on the stroke of twelve in a most dramatic and impressive manner.

Standing at the foot of the Louisiana Monument which towered high above the Plaza St. Louis until its great white crowning figure of Peace was lost In the upper shadows, his face turned toward Art Hill, down which the waters of the Cassades, which had been spouting all day, rushed In triple torrents, the President of the Exposition surrounded by the Board of Directors and the officials put the coup de grace upon the noble work of their talents and energies.

It was the closing of the World's Fair.

While a great throng looked on in somewhat the hush that falls over great assemblages at some crucial moments, with the subdued murmur of the funmaking Crowds on the Pike, the one discordant note, President Francis turned the key on the switchboard that changed the white, unblinking radiance of a million incandescent lamps on the buildings to a deep orange glow which Anally faded Into gloom. 

Even as the lights faded out and the vast Ivory City, by night a city of flame, was enwrapped in the shadows, came the notes of bugles sounding taps.

"Douse the glim," sang the bugles, and before the last note had sounded down the noble avenues and through the colonnades and loggias of the immense buildings around the Plaza, the palaces were in shadow and the Exposition In the past.