St. Louis Post-Dispatch
St. Louis
Missouri

JOVIAL CROWD HELPED PIKE DIE A JOLLY DEATH

Merrymakers Had Regard for Law, but Not for Dignity, on Closing Night of Great Show Thoroughfare at Fair.

POLICE CENTER OF RING-AROUND-ROSY

President Francis on Yellowstone Coach Led Noisy Throng to the Plaza, and 100,000 Saw Lights Go Out for Last Time.

The World's Fair died a violent, crimson death last night on the Pike. It died with shriek of laughter from painted lips, gay to the last, Its worn and tawdry garments lit with Jeweled lights, surrounded by Its careless, laughing companions, and always under the cold eye of the law.

Last night on the Pike was a hit out of real Bohemia. It was as a students' revel on Montmartre. It was a mad and merry whirl. It was crazily kaleidoscopic In movement and color.

Uncontrolled and uncontrollable spirits bubbled over the top of the tube of the Thermometer of the Mirth, so hot was the pace, and filled the Pike from end to end with all conceivable noises.

The roar of the Pike was heard above all other sounds on the World's Fair grounds long before dark. People approaching it with hurrying feet to become part of the crowd paraphrased Napoleon's famous saying and shouted "Beyond the Alps lies pandemonium!"

And the Pike became the land of pandemonium as soon as dark settled down, for revelry makes a hollow noise by sunlight, when paint and tinsel show their unworth.

There was no violence to mar the last night on the Pike, no blows were struck in anger, no tears were shed In pain. The World's Fair management early decided that the heartaches of the passing of the Exposition should be hidden under jest and laughter, and that each should hold concealed his sorrow at the fact.

Word had come that the rowdy element would try to control the situation and that loot Instead of mirth, violence Instead of humor should reign. If rowdies were present they subdued themselves when they saw the Pike controlled by armed Infantrymen, mounted police and police In and out of uniform, stationed everywhere. Although the places where liquid refreshment could be bought were patronized beyond their capacity, there was very little drunkenness. Little whiskey was sold anywhere, and the brew of the burg took its place. By 9 o'clock many of the cafes closed their doors because not a drop of beer remained. But drinking seemed the last consideration. High humor and frolic took its place.

Although the Pike was filled with good-humored riot, the police had nothing to do but smile back and exchange Jests with the rioters.

Pretty girls tickled the noses of the police with their little bunches of feathers, and daring young men crawled under the stolid horses of the mounted police, for even the horses were placid and good natured and seemed to enjoy the fun. Men hung their hats on the points of the guardsmen's bayonets and little squads of soldiers were followed about by improvised drum corps with trays purloined from restaurant waiters for drums.

The official opening of the night's merriment began when President Francis drove through the Pike about 6 o'clock on top of the Yellowstone coach, drawn by six white horses, accompanied by World's Fair directors and friends. The party was destined to the Tyrolean Alps to a dinner given Mr. Francis by Corwin H. Spencer.

As the coach swung into the crowded Pike at Battle Abbey, the reign of noise began.

The crowds further down the pike, hearing the added roar, surged toward it, and the mounted police ahead of the coach had difficulty In keeping an open way for the crawling procession.

When the presidential coach had passed its length, the crowd surged along again, filling the Pike from wall to wall, aimless except to have fun of any sort and at anybody's expense. Its energy was untiring. It emptied itself at one end, wandered around a bit and returned at the other end to take up the grind again. 

In the big dining room of the Alps another crowd took up the president. 

The greatest crowd that has ever filled the great dining room occupied every seat when President Francis, escorted by Mr. Bpencer and 14 others, entered and was seated at special table.

Hunger somewhat appeased and thirst wine-quenched, there were loud calls for a speech from the day's guest, and he rose to the demand. His speech was of the occasion, light and merry and withal grateful for the honor done him.

It was 10 o'clock or thereabouts when the Francis party left the Alps and was driven rapidly through the World's Fair grounds directly to tha Administration building where a large party, Including many ladies, awaited It.

Shortyly after 10 o'clock the curtain was rung up on the last act of the World's Fair, the last scene of which was to be the turning out of the lights. But the act began, as all acts should, merrily and with great movement. With Francis as leading man and a chorus of 20,000 merrymakers, It began with all lights on and to the accompaniment of music, shouts and laughter.

Mr. Francis again mounted the Yellowstone coach with Mrs. Francis, and every seat was full with directors, his sons and friends as a background for the central figure. Behind were a line of automobiles and carriages filled with department directors and ladies. Mounted police rode in front and behind, with many outriders.

Away to the Pike again.

By this hour the Pike was at its height of noise and fun. Gay crowds hand in hand and arm in arm cakewalked down the street. Girls were lassoed by bands of young men, showered with confetti, tickles, and, alas, often kissed amid shrieks of laughter.