St. Louis Globe-Democrat
St. Louis
Missouri

Lights out, great World's Fair ends as 100,000 watch.

Promptly at midnight President Francis presses the button and the most stupendous show the world has ever known fades into glorious memory - Gayety turns to sadness as Exposition passes - Raids by souvenir seekers cause early closing of the palaces.

Attendance on last day, 225,000.

Viaticum.
"Valete et plaudite!"

Into the past!
With all thy colonades, thy classic domes,
Thy fountains, where the sunbeams love to cast
Hues of the mystic arch, while downward foams
To the awaiting Peace of thy lagoon,
Thy roaring cataract! Alas, too soon
Fade thy rich palaces! The stately homes
Of states, the treasure houses of the arts,
The meeting place of factories and marts,
The showrooms of invention and of skill!
Well hast thou played the part thou cam'st to fill!
But now, with misty eyes, with aching hearts,
We watch thee sinking 'neath Time's western hill
Into the past!

Thus conquerors die!
Not the mere victors of one foughten field,
But empire-building sons of victory,
Whom no surpassing foe e'er brought to yield!
No fleck of cloud is on thy sunset sky,
No thorn upon the pillow of thy rest!
"Cream City," thou hast floated on the breast
Of milky memories of what East and West,
Old world and new, before thy day have done!
Forgetting nothing, and despising none,
Good have there been; we bow to thee, the best!
Bright stars have shone; we bend to thee, the sun!
Twilight nor night succeeds thy passing ray,
But "New St. Louis" speeds along her way
In the clear dawnlight of a mightier day.

H.T.

In the presence of a crowd estimated at 100,000 persons - a throng that dotted the plaza of St. Louis and adjacent thoroughfares as far back as the eye could reach, the World's Fair was brought to an end at midnight by David R. Francis.

It required a simple pressure of the hand to send the greatest Exposition the world has ever known into history. As the hand of the clock rested on the hour of 12, President Francis released an electric switch at the foot of the Louisiana Purchase monument, threw it upward, and paused. The crowd was silent, watching intently the movements of the president. In a second the switch teeth had been pressed home, and slowly, as though reluctant to lose its beauty, the grand illumination dimmed. A faint cheer arose, and was almost instantly hushed as the crowd realized that it was the end of the Exposition they were watching. Dimmer and dimmer grew the lights, until they disappeared completely. The main picture was in darkness, never to be lighted again.

The switch which threw the robe of darkness over the magnificent exhibit palaces was connected with a cable running to the main power plant in Machinery building. When the fingers of the switch were sent home an electric current sped along the cable, starting into life the immense dimming motor that controls thousands of lights in the main picture. At the same time a second current sped to the power house under the Cascades, forever silencing the torrents of foaming water whose noises have been heard by representatives of every country on the globe.

Francis day at the World's Fair will go on the official admission sheets as one of the record-breaking days of the exposition season. At 9 o'clock last night, according to a statement issued by officials of the department of admissions, the turnstiles had recorded a total of 199,442, with the crowd still pouring into the gates.

Semiofficial estimates made last night were to the effect that the total admissions for the day would go to 225,000. The gates remained open until midnight.