St. Louis Globe-Democrat
St. Louis
Missouri

OPENING OF THE LOUISIANA EXPOSITION

President Roosevelt Releases Vast Potentialities of the Great World's Fair - Beautiful Ivory City Is Opened to the Nations of the Earth - Ceremonies Brief, but Fitting.

CROWD THE GREATEST IN THE CITY'S HISTORY

The great ivory city is a reality at last. Yesterday afternoon, in the presence of the greatest crowd ever assembled in St. Louis, amid conditions which made its inception perfect, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition was formally opened by the President of the United States, who touched the button which released its ponderous machinery, caused the water to leak from its beautiful Cascades and unfurled its thousands of flags to the April breeze.

The opening ceremonies were simple. The men who made the exposition were in the foreground not ostentatiously or in a pushing way but as the natural reward of their work and endeavor. The national government, which is a partner in the enterprise, was represented by committees of the Senate and House of Representatives; the states of the Union had their governors or other state officials on hand, and the foreign nations, which have manifested a keen rivalry of interest in the Exposition, were also prominent in the proceedings.

At 1:05 p.m. a vast concourse of people that extended from the palace of Varied Industries to the Manufactures building and from the heroic statue of St. Louis to the very pinnacle of the Cascades, watched with expectant eyes the figure of President David R. Francis on the platform at the base of the Louisiana purchase monument. It was the supreme moment in the history of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; the climax of years of preparation.

Francis Announces Opening.

The fingers of the president of the World's Fair rested upon a golden telegraph key at his side. Nearly a thousand miles away in Washington surrounded by cabinet officers and distinguished statesmen stood President Roosevelt, his fingers also touching a similarly fashioned electric key. After a moment's hestitation those who stood in the plaza saw Mr. Francis suddenly raise both arms high into the air. In a voice that reverberated over the gathered multitude he cried:

"Open ye gates. Swing wide ye portals. Enter herein ye sons of men and behold the achievements of your race. Learn the lessons taught and gather from it inspiration for still greater achievement."

Hardly had his voice died away from every turret, cupola and tower, a thousand banners flung their silken folds to the breeze. The bands played the sweeping chorus of the "Star Spangled Banner," the water fell plunging and foaming down the Cascades and the Louisiana Purchase Exposition was officially declared open.

The programme for the opening exercises was carried out without a hitch, save that the crucial moment in the programme was reached an hour later than had been planned. Viewed from a great height the monument draped with its flags and flowers, the foreign representatives in their Oriental costumes, the gold and blue of innumerable uniforms, the women in their bright-colored finery, gave the scene the aspect of a painter's easel on which great daubs of paint had dropped and had been left where they lay.

Arrival of the Notables.

President Francis arrived at the monument at exactly three minutes of 10 o'clock and was rousily cheered. With but a few introductory words he introduced Rev. Frank W. Gunsaulus of Chicago, who led the invocation. Then Mr. Francis delivered the address he had prepared for the occasion. The recognition of William H. Thompson of the grounds and buildings committee, who in turn brough forward Isaac S. Taylor, the director of works, was but a prologue to the interesting ceremony of transferring the keys of the Exposition palaces. Following this Mr. Taylor called the chiefs of his division to the platform and presented them with diplomas of merit.

Following the march, "Louisiana" led by John Philip Sousa, Director of Exhibits Frederick J V Skiff presented the chiefs of his staff with the insignias of their office. Then in rapid succession came Mayor Rolla Wells, Senator T H Carter, United States Senator A. E. Burnham, Committeeman James A Tawney, E H Harriman, chairman of the New York commission; Albino R. Nuncio, the commissioner general to the Fair from Mexico; Michal Legrave and commissioner from France. Secretary of War Wm. H. Taft, the personal representative of President Roosevelt, ascended to the rostrum at 12:54 and spoke for nearly ten minutes. His speech was a powerful one, and at its conclusion he was given an ovation.

During the time the participants and spectators were arriving, Sousa's band, in the east band stand on the plaza, rendered an extensive programme. Later the band moved to the stand near the monument and played the opening march. The various divisions of the participants and representatives were led to the plaza by the bands of Directors Weil and Innes. Alfred Ernst, conductor of the grand chorus of 150 voices, led the music for the chorus numbers of "America" and the "Star-Spangled Banner." Gov. Dockery of Missouri sat upon the platform with the speakers but took no part in the programme. The guests were seated about the platform in a semicircle. At one extreme end sat Mrs Francis and the wives of distinguished World's Fair officials. At the other extreme sat the board of lady managers. Next to the lady managers sat the foreign commissioners. To the rear were Gen Bates and Gen Chaffee and their staffs. Farther to the right were the city officials, directors of the World's Fair, congressional representatives, and governors of states.

OPENING-DAY CROWD ESTIMATED AT 232,000.

The exact figures on attendance for the opening day of the World's Fair will not be available until today. At midnight a force of employees, under the direction of E. Norton White chief of admissions was still engaged and footing up the totals.

Mr. White would venture no estimate beyond the statement that the attendance was a "record breaker." This means that it is ahead of the opening day attendance at Philadelphia, in 1876, which was in round figures 186,000 and the opening day crowd at Chicago, in 1893, which numbered 137,000.

The bureau of publicity of the Exposition estimates the attendance at 240,000. A careful study of the crowd from each of the points of entrance leads to the belief that about 232,000 passed the turnstiles during the day.

Probably not over a per cent of those attending were admitted on passes. There was very little "paper" in the great crowd, and the vast majority of those who attended paid for the privilege. The number of children was also unexpectedly small.

The Lindell boulevard was far in the lead in the number of admissions.