The St. Louis Republic
St. Louis
Missouri

Miracles worked in cleaning grounds

Thousands of Laborers Toil All Night to Make Ivory City Beautiful.

Roads thoroughly swept.

Green Lawns and Flowers Contrast With Dazzling Whiteness of the Great Exhibit Palaces.

Miracles were worked overnight at the World's Fair grounds and in the palaces between sundown Friday night and sunrise yesterday morning. 

Thousands of workers of all kinds - how many there were no Exposition official would even venture to estimate - worked with might and main to clear away tons of debris and make the grounds wear their holiday aspect. 

Director Taylor's promise that on the opening day the World's Fair palaces would be swept and garnished and the grounds look as neat as a pin was verified. Along the stately avenues of the Ivory City there was nothing to mar the beautiful picture.

When the myriads of workers had finished their work in clearing away the debris from the exhibit palaces all hands were put to work cleaning the avenues and roads of the Exposition. A procession of teams and carts was in waiting, and as fast as the mud and dust was cleared from the surface it was carted away. 

The landscape gardeners and the road builders, who up to the last moment were engaged in their work on the site, were pressed into service, and under the united efforts of thousands of workers the thoroughfares of the great Exposition City were made clean. 

The last step in cleaning the Exposition was the flushing of the paved streets by the use of wide-nozzle hose. By the first glint of the sun upon the white palaces the results of the herculean labors of the workers were made visible. 

White roadways contrasted with the tender green of the lawns, and the dazzling whiteness of the exhibit palaces was relieved by paths and roadways of red screenings.

Innumerable budding trees and flowering shrubs on the slopes of Art Hill gave the Ivory City a springlike appearance, and the scene was well calculated to cause those who saw it for the first time to wonder that out of the chaos which reigned only a few days ago could have come such perfection. 

While the Exposition is not complete in its every detail; while here and there the lawns and plants are somewhat tardy in their growth, this can be accounted for in the lateness of the spring, and cannot be charged to any lack of good work upon the part of the Exposition management. 

To-day the Ivory City will be closed. The law closing the Louisiana Purchase Exposition on Sunday is effective at once and no visitors will be admitted. The work of completing the exhibits will proceed, however, and many thousand of workmen will be engaged to-day. Only at night and on Sundays will construction and freight handling be allowed at the Exposition between now and the time it shall close. 