The St. Louis Republic
St. Louis
Missouri

EAST PRAISES THE FAIR AS GREAT NATIONAL EVENT 

Commemorates Step Which Brought to Country Its First Great Realization of Triumphant Individuality Among the World's Powers - International In Scope, Yet Distinctly an Expression of a Century of Development in the Great Middle West.

MUCH TO BE SEEN BESIDES THAT PLANNED BY MANAGEMENT.

REPUBLIC SPECIAL. 

New York, April 30 - Under the caption "St. Louis," the Tribune this morning says editorially: 

"St. Louis is to-day, in popular interest and attention, the capital of the United States and a center of observation for the world. It is the scene of the mosst extensive and imposing of international exhibitions.

"There are displayed the most ingenious inventions of the human mind and the most perfect fabrications of human skill. There are gathered representative men of the best types from all lands and nations.

"There, in brief, is an epitome of the world in its latest and, therefore, its best estate. Upon such a spectacle mankind must look with sympathy.

"The United States, while sharing fully the sentiments of all the world upon this occasion, has special reasons of its own, of an authoritative kind, for regarding St. Louis with peculiar interest. It is now nearly fifty-one years since the first World's Fair in this country was opened. That was in New York, and it was as great an enterprise for that day as the the St. Louis Fair is for the present time. It was organized and held simply as a fair, without regard to the celebration of any anniversary." 

COMMEMORATIVE FAIRS.

"But its successors, of which the present is the third, have been distinctly commemorative. That at Philadelphia, in 1876, marked the centennary of the Declaration of Independence. That at Chicago, in 1893, marked - a year behind the calendar - the fourth centenary of the Columbian discovery of America. It will be well to consider what event is commemorated - a year behind the time - by this latest and greatest of them all, that is worthy thus to be ranked with the august achievements of 1492 and 1776. 

"It would perhaps be an exaggeration to say that the purchase of Louisiana was as momentous an event in its bearing upon the affairs of the whole world, as the discovery of America, or the Declaration of American Independence. 

"We may, however, unhesitatingly place it foremost among supplementary or even complementary achievements. It was the work of Columbus that made known the New World to the Old; but it was the work of Jefferson and his colleagues, more than three centuries later, that determined what racial and political disposition should be made ot the dominant portion of that New World. 

"In the Declaration of Independence, Jefferson eloquently set forth the aspirations and the resolutions or the American States; but it was in the purchase of Louisiana, more than a quarter of a century later, that he practically assumed the permanent maintenance of their independence. 

ANGLO-SAXONS WON.

"Not until 1802 was it made sure that the Anglo-Saxon, rather than the Latin, race should dominate the North American continent. Not until then was it made certain that the United States would expand to continental limits, and not be compelled to share this continent with some other Power Cat might rival or actually surpass it in size and strength. 

"St. Louis, therefore, celebrates, and at St. Louis the American nation celebrates the event which extended our domain from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from the Lakes to the Gulf, and which made the longest river in the world exclusively our own from source to mouth; the event which freed us forever from the danger of a rival American Power that might menace our independence. 

"Those features of that event would justify the stateliest commemoration it was within our power to give. But they are not all.

NATION A PACT.

"We celebrate to-day an event which made this nation know itself, and know itself to be, indeed, a nation, with all the privileges and powers of any other nation - able to acquire new territories, to hold them and to govern them according to its will and 'to do all other acts and things which sovereign states may of right do.'

"These things are the supreme significance of this occasion. The triumphs of art and industry are shared by all the world. The attending multitudes will bring us greetings from all the world. It is an international exhibition.

"But in the international we must not forget the national. The celebration and display are international in the widest sense, but the occasion itself is national in the strictest and most effective sense. We celebrate the rising of the young Republic to the full stature of realized and triumphant nationality." 

EMINENTLY FITTING.

The World says: "In the criticisms sometimes heard, to the effect that we Americans indulge in overmany centennial celebrations, no one has ventured to cite as an example the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, which to-day opens its doors at St. Louis.

"The purchase of 'Louisiana' by Thomas Jefferson from Napoleon was an event of great scale and immeasurable importance. The region then so called stretches across fourteen States and Territories, from the Gulf, in Louisiana, to the British Columbian line, in Montana. It vies with the Romas Empire, at its height, in extent, variety of climate and natural capacity. It is nine times the size of the home islands of Great Britain. It contains almost exactly the combined area of Germany, France, Austria-Hungary, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Denmark and Greece. It is capable of supporting, as they do, more than 300,000,000 people.

"The Louisiana Purchase was the first, best and greatest act of legitimate expansion by the Republic upon its own continent and under its own constitution. Without Louisiana we should have been barred from the Pacific, the great ocean of the future. We should have had only a grudging admission to the Gulf, which faces the new South America and the Isthmus, so soon to be sundered. With it came the great valley of the Mississippi and the road that led to the western sea.

ADEQUATE TO OCCASION.

"The Exposition Is in extent, in stately beauty and in comprehensiveness, adequate to the great occasion which commands it. Every State and Territory in the Union with one exception is represented; sixty foreign Governments unite in making it complete and memorable. It not only shows the advances which the Republic and other nations have made in the mechanic arts, but its schools and colleges exhibits and its art collections enhance the value of its aesthetic teachings.

"Particularly valuable in the lesson of St. Louis is the exhibit for which the directors are not responsible, of a thousand miles of America. For Eastern and foreign observers the Chicago fair greatly gained in interest from distance. St. Louis is a thousand miles from the seaboard, a thousand miles from the Gulf by the Mississippi, a thousand miles by any route from Ottawa or Winnipeg. No foreign visitor, no untraveled American, can see the Fair without seeing far more than the Fair and gaining thereby a broader view of the land whose great middle zone is the Louisiana Purchase."