The St. Louis Republic
St. Louis
Missouri

Visiting notables unanimous in praise of the World's Fair

Distinguished Visitors Predict a Grand Success for the Exposition - Prince Pu Lun Says Says It's "A Glimpse of the Rising Sun" - Secretary Taft declares It Will Be Paragon of Expositions - Other Comments. 

Distinguished visitors at the World's Fair opening exercises were unanimous in their expressions of admiration and predictions of a grand success for the Exposition. A few of the comments were: 

Prince Pu Lun: "A glimpse of the rising sun! It typifies all that is grand in this life or the next." 

William H. Taft, Secretary of War: "The greatness of the Exposition prohibits me doing it justice in a few sentences. Without a more detailed inspection I cannot compare the Louisiana Purchase Exposition with others, but, judging from general appearances, I doubt not that it will prove to be the paragon of expositions, fulfilling abundantly the promises of this opening day." 

Governor Peabody of Colorado: "We Coloradoans rarely admit that there is anything more beautiful than our mountains, but I, for one, am forced to admit that the World's Fair exceeds in beauty and grandeur our lofty peaks clad in snow, our rich valleys and our impressive ranges." 

Colonel Watson, the Royal British High Commissioner: "I believe this will go down into history as the greatest of world's expositions, it is beyond the power of words to describe."

Charles S. Sprague, Secretary of the Senate of the Colorado Legislature: "The World's Fair is a conjure city. It seems impossible to believe that it was conceived and builded by men. It impresses one as something brought into being by magic" 

Governor Dockery: "The opening ceremonies were the most inspiring I have ever witnessed. Providence was kind to us in giving us an ideal day. The success of the Exposition is assured, and I am convinced that it will be the triumph of the century." 

Giovanni Branchi, Commissioner General from Italy: "It seems a pity that such magnificent structures should not remain always." 

Sir Adalbert von Stibral, Commissioner General from Austria: "No European a decade ago would have believed that there could be so magnificent a spectacle as this in your Western country, but we are rapidly becoming educated to the wonderful resources of your country and the marvelous genius of your great men." 

Jules Carlier, Commissioner General from Belgium: "I have never seen anything to magnificent as that picture at the opening ceremonies. It was all so grand, so overpowering. The Americans are a great people." 

Wong Kal Kah, Vice Commissioner from China: "The Prince tells me that he is greatly pleased, both with the beauty of the Fair and with his reception." 

Colonel Francisco de Souza Aguiar, Commissioner General from Brazil: "Words are feeble in describing the completed Exposition. With such a beautiful day as today has been, the beautiful palaces and grounds seem grander than ever." 

Peter de Abrew, Assistant Commissioner General from Ceylon: "Nature has smiled on the Exposition on its opening day. If there be anything in auguries, surely the people of St Louis should feel that fortune will continue to be propitious to the enterprise." 

Theodor Lewald, Commissioner General from Germany: "Germany has always had faith in the greatness of this Exposition. After to-day the whole civilized world may see and know what St. Louis has prepared for its delectation." 

Esteban Duque Estrada, Commissioner General from Cuba: "St. Louis may well be proud of the glorious work the builders of her Exposition have achieved."

Mrs. Helen Bols-Hunsicker, member of the Board of Lady Managers: "Wonders have been accomplished since my last visit to St. Louis. Although I had faith in its greatness, I could not realize until to-day that it would set a standard for future expositions that can hardly be attained." 

Nicholas M. Bell, member of the World's Fair Board of Directors: "God smiles on our Exposition. With so auspicious a beginning we surely have a right to expect a glorious success." 

Baron Matsudaira, Vice President of the Imperial Japanese Commission to the World's Fair: "Japan congratulates St. Louis and the men who are responsible for this great Exposition. Never was a fairer sight than the splendid palaces and beautiful grounds of the World's Fair presented on this opening day." 

Thomas H. Carter, United States Senator from Montana and one of tha United States Commissioners: "I am sure that the Exposition will be a great success, for doesn't this enormous crowd show the interest the people feel in the World's Fair?" 

Former Congressman John M. Allen of Mississippi: "The World's Fair is the greatest educational institution ever conceived. I am confident that the attendance from the Southern States will be treble that at the Chicago fair, for his is our Exposition." 

Myron T. Herrick, Governor of Ohio: "The state of completion surprised me. The American people should be told that the Louisiana Purchase Exposition at this time is far in advance of any previous world's fair." 

Thomas W. Hymes, representative of Governor Odell and Mayor McClellan, and Commissioner from New York: "The magnitude and state of completion at the Fair delight me. My expectations have been surpassed." 

John G. Brady, Governor of Alaska: "It is up to all promises made and surpasses my most sanguine expectations." 

James K. Toole, Governor of Montana: "I am very well pleased and the condition of affairs at the Exposition is far in advance of my expectations."

Heber M. Wells. Governor of Utah: "The preparedness surprises me and the Commissioners from Utah. We had not expected to find the World's Fair in such good shape." 

Henry Roberts, Lieutenant Governor of Connecticut: "It is beyond the power of words to express appreciation of the magnificence of the Fair." 

T. B. Ferguson. Governor of Oklahoma: "The World's Fair builders have done remarkably well, and the arrangements by St. Louis for the opening of the Exposition are as near perfect as could be expected." 

S. B. Rankin, Executive Commissioner from Ohio: "Everyone is surprised to see the work so nearly completed."