The St. Louis Republic
St. Louis
Missouri

WORLD'S FAIR GATES OPEN TO VISITORS OF EVERY CLIME

At Four Minutes After One O'Clock Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, Presses the Golden Button, Setting in Motion the Machinery of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

More than 300,000 persons were in tha Plaza St. Louis and scattered through the Fair grounds yesterday when President Roosevelt pressed the golden button at four minutes after 1 o'clock, releasing the waters of the Cascades, unfurling thousands of banners and signaling to the world that the gates of the World's Fair were open.

As the vast multitude saw the waters swelling over the Cascades, cheer followed cheer, which finally resolved into all singing "The Star-Spangled Banner," led by the many bands. To the harmony of the song and cheers was added the ringing of many bells and the shrill notes of whistles. 

Inspired by the secene, the bright weather and the enthusiastic greeting which he received from the crowd, President Francis delivered an address filled with eloquent sights of oratory, clouding with the peroration: "Open, ye gates! Spring wide, ye portals! Enter here, ye sons of men, and behold the achievements of your race! Learn the lessons taught herein and gather from them the inspiration for further accomplishments."

At the close of this peroration the signal was flashed to Washington, where President Roosevelt was waiting in the White House, that the time had come for him to start the machinery of the Fair. At once the chief executive of tha United States pressed the golden button and the Fair was opened.

From start to finish the opening ceremonies were absolutely without a marring incident. Every detail from the formation of the column of officials at the Administration building to march to the Plaza St. Louis, where seats were provided on the stand, to the response of the machinery to the signal of President Roosevelt, was accomplished without delay or confusion.

As if to crown the success, the weather was perfect. The sky was cloudless and a gentle breeze, strong enough to display the many flags and freshen the air, wafted through the grounds.

CONCERT BY SOUSA'S BAND PRECEDES EXERCISES.

At 9 o'clock Sousa's Band, in the east band stand on the plaza, began the grand assembling concert which preceded the commencement of the opening ceremonies. 

The calling to order of the assemblage was scheduled for 10 o'clock, but owing to the usual delays in such cases it was not until later that this was actually done. The parade of the President and officials of the Exposition was on time, coming in the order of formation as announced, except that President Francis of tha Exposition and President Carter of the National Commission walked abreast

As the guiding spirit of the World's Fair ascended the rostrum with the silver-mounted gavel carved from an oak felled on the Exposition site, the audience rose to its feet and cheered him vigorously. In turn the Vice Presidents, Directors and Chiefs of departments of the Exposition filed in tha roped inclosure at the base of the monument and were seated in their reservation immediately in front of the speakers' stand.

But a brief space of time intervened until the arrival of the foreign Commissioners and representatives of the Exposition. The solid array of men in conventional morning dress of silk hats and frock coats was given a most decided dash of color by the costumes of many of the members of this body. Gorgeous court dresses, plumed, shakos, chapeaux generously slashed with gold braid, decorations and insignia glinted back the dazzling reflection of the morning sun as they filed in. There was the clink of spur and the clank of saber as the military officers, of whom there were many, took their seats to the right of the speakers' stand.

Soon the representatives of State and Territorial governments, with the Government Board and several Governors of States and their uniformed staffs, arrived, and they were seated back of the Exposition officials. 

REPRESENTATIVE OF ROOSEVELT RECEIVES OVATION.

Secretary of War Taft was the last to arrive, riding in a carriage with an escort of two troops of United States Cavalry. His arrival on the speakers' stand was the signal for a great outburst of applause from the throng, all of the Exposition officials rising to greet the President's representative.

It was nearly 11 o'clock whan President Francis ascended the steps of the rostrum and, tapping the stand with the silver-mounted gavel, called the meeting to order. Immediately afterwards introducing the Reverend Frank W. Gunsaulus of Chicago, who delivered the invocation. The prayer was a beautiful one, which the vast crowd listened to with respectful attention and reverential mien. The Lord's Prayer concluded the invocation, the assemblage joining in it. The murmur of thousands reciting the prayer in unison, led by the speaker, was one of the most impressive features of the morning's exercises.

When the "Amen" of the prayer had sounded over the plaza President Francis arose to deliver the initial address. The Exposition President never spoke in a more eloquent and exalted strain. The splendidity, enthusiastic crowd, the propitious weather, with the sunshine gliding the greensward and the ivory of the palaces, all seemed to convey their message of the success that had crowned the untiring efforts of himself and his staff for the last two years, and to inspire him to greater flights of oratory.

His words, in which he told briefly and unboastingly of the trials and efforts of Exposition, with the culminating success that the morning witnessed, were listened to with the closest attention by the great assemblage, and when he had finished his words were applauded until tha echoes rang again and again through the wide plaza. 

When he had finished he recognized Chairman William H. Thompson of the Exposition Committee on Grounds and Buildings. Mr. Thompson introduced Director of Works Isaac B. Taylor.

The appearance of the Director of Works on the rostrum was the signal for yet another popular acclamation. His address was a tribute to the loyalty and faithfulness of the chiefs of his division, and was feelingly delivered.

KEYS OF EXPOSITION PRESENTED TO PRESIDENT FRANCIS.

At the conclusion of his address the Director of Works drew from its cushioned case a golden key, the symbolic key to the palaces, which he presented to President Francis. When he had delivered the key of the entire Exposition to the President the Director of Works called the chiefs of his division to the foot of the speakers' stand and in a few brief but earnest words, in which he thanked them for loyal and intelligent co-operation with him in the work of rearing the Ivory City, he delivered to each a diploma of merit.

When this part of the ceremony had been performed the strains of the official march of the World's Fair, Van der Stucken's "Louisiana," were played by Sousa's Band, the audience hearing it for the first time. 

Wearing the gold insignia of his office with the Columbian Exposition at Chicago, Director of Exhibits Skiff was escorted to the side of President Francis to receive from him his official commission and the insignia of his office with the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company. In words that spoke eloquently of the notable achievements of Mr. Skiff, both at this Exposition and at that of Chicago, President Francis handed the Director of Exhibits his official commission and pinned on his coat lapel the gold badge of his rank as one of the four directors of the Exposition. 

At the close of the address which he delivered Mr. Skiff presented to President Francis a copy of the official catalogue containing a description, with their locations in the different palaces, of fourteen exhibit sections, of more than 55,000 individual displays. 

Following the address of the Director of Exhibits, Edmund Clarence Stedman's "Hymn of the West," set to music by John Knowles Paine, was sung by the chorus, to band accompaniment. Alfred Ernst led the singers.

MAYOR ROLLA WELLS ESCORTED TO ROSTRUM.

As the last notes of the superb song died away Mayor Rolla Wells was escorted to the rostrum and introduced by President Francis. President Carter followed the Mayor in an address representing the National Commission of the World's Fair.

Senator Henry E. Burnham, on behalf of the Senate Committee that attended the opening ceremonies, next spoke, and he was followed by Congressman James A. Tawney, representing the Committee of the House of Representatives. In introducing Mr. Tawney President Francis referred to him as "Mr. Tawney of the Louisiana Purchase," in recognition of his unswerving friendship toward the great enterprise. 

The dean of the foreign Commissioners, Albino R. Nuncio, Commissioner General for Mexico, was introduced to speak on behalf of the foreign exhibitors at the Exposition. Mr. Nuncio spoke but briefly, gracefully yielding his place on the programme to Commissioner General Michel Lagrave of France.

This was a change in the original programme. The French Commissioner General delivered a speech which was eloquent of the friendship of the Government and the people of France for those of the United States, and in a glowing prophecy predicted that the World's Fair at St. Louis would prove one that would be unsurpassable.

On behalf of the domestic exhibitors at the Fair, Edward H. Harriman, Preside of the New York World's Fair Commission, delivered an address. He spoke of the doubts he entertained two weeks ago on the occasion of a visit to the Fair that the Exposition could possibly be finished on time, and acknowledged his error.

While the audience rose and stood with uncovered heads at the conclusion of Mr. Harriman's speech, "America" was sung by the chorus, to a band accompaniment. With the closing of the national hymn a hush fell on the assembled multitudes as Peter De Graw, Eastern representative of the Exposition, who presided at the golden telegraph key on the speakers' stand, announced to Secretary Stevens that the wire between Washington and St. Louis was clear and he was ready for the message from President Francis to President Roosevelt in the White House.

While President Francis stood with his finger on the gold key, a message was flashed to President Roosevelt announcing that the management was awaiting his pleasure as to the opening of the Exposition.

It had been arranged that President Roosevelt should press the key which would officially open the Fair at exactly 12 o'clock, but at that hour the programme was not completed and the officials decided to turn back the Exposition clock and finish the programme as it was originally planned.

In order that President Roosevelt's time might not be encroached upon, the signal was transmitted to Washington that all was ready for the presidential touch at approximately 12:15 St. Louis time, and in a few seconds the official signal flashed back from the White House and the Exposition was officially opened.

The programme of the day was closed, however, and it was not until 1:04 that the signal was flashed which set in operation the machinery of the Fair, the ringing of the bells and the unfurling of the flags and the actual opening of the Exposition.

At the instant Director of Works Taylor waved a cane on which was fastened a small flag. The signal was taken up by a line of runners, and before he had started to wave the signal the current starting the machinery in Machinery Hall was started, a thousand bright-colored flags were releases, the floodgates of the Cascades started and the great volume of water set in motion.