The St. Louis Republic
St. Louis
Missouri

Illumination is crowning glory of Fair

Thousands Watch Lights Steal Over Buildings as Current's Full Power Develops, Wait Until Darkness Comes.

Structures Vie With Each Other in Producing Wonderful and Ever Changing Effects.

Cascades reflect splendor.

Crowning Glory Is Festival Hall Towering Far Above the Brilliant Scene a Veritable Vision of Glowing Grandeur.

Mingling emotions of joy and reverence filled the hearts of the thousands who witnessed the first official lighting of the Exposition last night. 

Public enthusiasm increased with the growth of the light effects. In whispering silence the great throng watched the first faint glow of the lights in the various buildings, and as the splendor grew animated expressions produced a humming noise which gave way to deafening cheers as the full effect of the glorious spectacle was realized. 

Cheer after cheer from thousands of throats rent the air as the magnificence of the unsurpassed scene was appreciated by the eager admirers. 

The myriads of electric lights, glimmering and twinkling from every nook and corner of the big World's Fair buildings transformed the grounds into an enchanted city filled with fairy palaces of light and gold. 

Here the light was dazzling in its brightness and there it was shed in a soft, yellow sheet, which gradually faded into shadows which lurked in the remotest recesses. 

The gorgeous scene had as many different points of view as there was standing room in the vast area. The slightest change in the angle of vision, revealed an effect different from all the rest and equally wonderful. 

WAITED UNTIL DARK BEFORE TURNING ON LIGHTS. 

Planning to create the most perfect effect at the start, the Exposition officials waited until darkness enveloped the grounds before the lights were turned on in force. With the exception of a few scattered lights in the various pavilions, there was nothing to indicate the radiant glory of the scene which was to come until 7:45 o'clock. 

A single row of incandescent clusters outlining the course of the Colonnade of States, heralded the approach of the general illumination. People surged in one vast sea of moving humanity in an effort to gain the most advantageous point of view. Dark lines of men and women entirely inclosed the vast waterways and plazas. The steps leading to Festival Hall on either side of the Cascades afforded resting places for thousands who waited expectantly for the crowning moment when the lights should come on in full blast.

All of the big buildings were lighted simultaneously. At first the hundreds of rows of eight-candle-power lights could be faintly traced. Like gigantic glowworms creeping cautiously along the massive white walls and columns, the lights came on stronger and stronger until the full power of the lighting plants was called into use. 

From the Cascades every building could be distinctly outlined as the lights came on. On the extreme west was Machinery Hall, with its towers and columns all aglow with circles, semicircles and straight lines. Still further away to the north of Machinery Hall the intricate roof of the Transportation building formed a background which receded gradually into the black darkness of infinite space.

GREAT BUILDINGS VIE IN SPLENDID EFFECTS. 

Directly in front of the Cascades the Electricity building and the Education building vied with each other in an effort to produce the most beautiful effect. The broken straight lines and irregular arrangement of the lights on the Electricity building produced an effect which caused people to pause and stare with awe. The Education building, with its straight lines of light, surmounted with clusters arranged in semicircles, produced a hazy glow, which caused the statuary on its top to appear like phantoms moving along the edge of a fiery precipice. 

In the extreme east was the Palace of Liberal Arts, flanked by the Government pavilion, with its great dome surrounded by three giant circles of light, which spread a sheet of gold over the vast dome in the center of the roof. 

The Mines and Metallurgy building and the Manufacturers building, with their massive columns seemingly transparent in the glare of side lights, contributed their share to the effect. 

From the Louisiana Purchase Monument the view of the Cascades baffled description. The sheets of water which poured down the stone pathway looked more like waves of gold and silver gause. The rays of light from a million different angles glinted and scintillated on the tumbling sheets of crystal water until it was almost dissolved in air. 

FESTIVAL EALL WAS THE CROWNING FEATURE.

Festival HalL with its two vast wings, formed by the Colonnade of States, was the crowning feature of the illumination. The vast dome of the hall rose to meet the sky a veritable mass of blaze and flame. The two pavilions at the extreme ends of the Colonnade took a peculiar bell shape. They appeared like sentinels of fire guarding the army of lights which hung suspended in the air from either side of Festival Hell.

The sky above was tinted with many colors, which formed a purple canopy for the magic city and its hundreds of admirers, who were loth to leave and waited for the closing rule to drive them from the grounds.