The Baltimore Sun
Baltimore
Maryland

GREATEST OF WORLD'S FAIRS FORMALLY OPENED.

Vast Crowd Watches Inspiring Scene In St. Louis' New Magic City.

HAILED AS AN AMERICAN TRIUMPH

President Roosevelt Touches A Golden Key In The White House, Machinery Starts, A Myriad Of Flags Float And Cascades Splash Downward. 

MESSAGES EXCHANGED AT OPENING OF THE EXPOSITION

David R. Francis To President Roosevelt.

To the President of the United States: 

In response, to the signal flashed by the President of the United States the Louisiana Purchase Exposition has been opened. The sky is cloudless. The people assembled fill the great plaza. The grounds and building are complete. The exhibits are in order. Nothing has occurred to mar this most auspicious occasion.

In behalf of the Exposition I wish to express to the Chief Executive of the nation our most sincere thanks for the honor done in formally opening the Exposition.

David R. Francis,
President of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

President Roosevelt To David R. Francis. 

Hon. David R. Francis, St. Louis: 

I congratulate you and your associates on this memorable occasion. I wish well to all who have joined in working for the success of this great enterprise; and on behalf of the American people I greet the representatives of foreign countries who have come here to co-operate with us in celebrating in appropriate fashion the one hundredth anniversary of the event which turned Us into a continental nation.

Theodore Roosevelt.

STORY OF THE OPENING

Nations Join In Launching The Record-Breaking Show.

St. Louis, April 30. - Early this afternoon, to the tolling of bells, amid the crash of bands, the sweeping chorus of "The Star-Spangled Banner," sung by a thousand voices, and the cheers of the greatest throng ever assembled in St. Louis, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition was formally declared open.

The official hour for the beginning of the exercises was 9 o'clock, at which time the officials of the Exposition, members of the national commission and of the board of lady managers were scheduled to meet at the Administration Building. Long before that time the grounds were filled. To the many thousands of the local population were added many more, who came in excursion trains.

Although special effort was made by the management of the Exposition to secure a large attendance for the opening day, the crowd was fully as large as that which filled the grounds one year ago when the Exposition buildings were dedicated with so much pomp and ceremony.

Promptly at the hour set the officers and directors of the Exposition, the members of the national commission and of the board of lady managers were gathered at the Administration Building, where as rapidly as possible they were formed into a procession and marched to the Plaza of St. Louis in the center of the grounds, where the formal exercises of the opening were conducted.

LED BY JEFFERSON GUARDS.

At the head of the column was a detachment of the Jefferson Guards, who are to do police duty within the Exposition while it continues. Then came the Philippine scouts' band, followed by the scouts themselves, who marched well. Behind them and leading the officers and directors of the Exposition came Sousa's Band. Following the officers and directors were the members of the national commission and last of all the board of lady managers, some of whom went on foot, while others preferred the more luxurious method of riding in carriages.

As the column from the Administration Building entered the plaza a long line formed of representatives of foreign governments, which had assembled In the Hall of Congresses, came pouring into the plaza from another avenue. This column was also headed by a detachment of the Jefferson Guards, followed by a band. Immediately behind the music were the members at the Exposition committee on foreign relations, then came commissioners and representatives of foreign governments which have Ambassadors or Ministers accredited to the United States Goverrnment, and then a number of other representatives of foreign governments and colonies also in the order of presentation of their credentials to the Exposition.

This column presented by far the gayest appearance of the day, for the foreigners made a prodigal display of gold lace and bright colors in glittering contrast to the black silk hats and dark frock coats which were prominent among the officials of the Exposition.

A third column came shortly afterward formed of representatives of the States and Territories in the Union.

FRANCIS PRESIDES.

The participants in the exercises quickly took their places at the base of the Louisiana Monument, where a small stand had been erected for the speakers and seats provided for the listeners. The assemblage was called to order without delay by President D. R. Francis, of the Exposition, who requested the audience to rise while Rev. Frank M. Gunsaulus, of Chicago, formerly of Baltimore, delivered the invocation.

Dr. Gunsaulus concluded his eloquent invocation with the Lord's Prayer, in which the audience joined. President Francis, as the chief executive of the Exposition, then made an address. This and other addresses are given elsewhere In separate dispatches.

At the conclusion of his address President Francis recognized William H. Thompson, of the committee on grounds and buildings, who presented Isaac S. Taylor, the director of works. Mr. Taylor delivered President Francis the keys of the Exposition and gave diplomas of merit to the chiefs of staff.

TRANSFERRING THE HOLDINGS.

After the march "Louisiana" had been played by Sousa's Band President Francis transferred the Exposition buildings to J. V. Skiff, the director of exhibits, the performance being emblematic of the facts that the buildings had been erected by the men in charge of that portion of the work and were now ready and waiting for the installation of the exhibits through Mr. Skiff's department. Mr. Skiff also made an address.

The grand chorus "Hymn of the West" was then sung by a choir led by Alfred Ernst. The music of the hymn was by John Knowles Payne and its words were written by Edmund Clarence Stedman.

President Francis introduced Mayor Rolla Wells, of St. Louis, who spoke briefly, extending to the people of the United States and to the residents of countries abroad a cordial welcome to the city when they should visit the exposition.

Hon. Thomas H. Carter, president of the national commission, spoke in behalf of that body.

SPEAKING FOR CONGRESS.

At the conclusion of Mr. Carter's address President Francis happily introduced another member of the United States Senate, who spoke on behalf of the senior house of Congress. This was Senator Henry E. Burnham, of New Hampshire.

Following the speaker for the higher branch of Congress came the representative of, the more numerous department, James A. Tawney, of Minnesota, who spoke for the House of Representatives. 

For the domestic exhibitors Edward H. Harriman, president of the New York State commission, made an address.

The speaker for the foreign exhibitors was Michael Le Grave, Commissioner-General of France.

The chorus of "America" was sung and Hon. William H. Taft, Secretary of War, acting as the representative of the President of the United States, delivered the last address of the day.

STARTED BY MR. ROOSEVELT.

The conclusion of the speech of Secretary Taft was the signal for the opening of the fair. In the White House at Washington President Roosevelt was waiting for the signal which was to tell that the proper moment hnd arrived to touch the golden key that would set the manifold machinery of the fair in full operation.

Secretary Taft had not turned to resume his sent after concluding his speech before the signal had been flashed to Washington over the wires of the Postal Telegraph Company. Instantly there was a returning flash which started the machinery In Machinery Hall In operation.

Strictly speaking this was all that was accomplished by the Presidential touch on the button at Washington. Operators here were waiting for the response from the White House, and as quickly as it came they touched keys which released the fastenings of the thousands of banners that were secured to the staffs on the roofs of all the large exhibit palaces. Every banner apparently caught the same breath of air and they unfurled and floated out as one.

CASCADES BURST FORTH.

At the far end of the lagoon from the Louisiana monument was the place for the cascades. This portion of the ceremonies had greater interest for the people than apparently any other feature of the opening. Hundreds or thousands of eyes were focused on the three white Inclines that extend from the colonnade of States to the lagoon basin. The first glint of white foam at the summit of the Inclines was greeted with a tremendous cheer which deepened as the great flood of water came splashing tumultuously down the lagoon below. It was a sight full of beauty, and the great crowd which witnessed it appreciated and applauded to the full.

Simultaneously with the rush of the water all the bands burst forth at once into the strains of the "Star-Spangled Banner." Every man In the great crowd uncovered, and when the last strain of the song had died away the exercises were finished and the Exposition had begun.

PARADE OF "THE PIKE."

The first feature of the Exposition proper was the concessionaires' parade. This was made up of all the different features which will figure on "the Pike" during the life of the Exposition. The Pike Is to the St. Louis Exposition exactly what "the Midway" was to the Columbian Exposition in Chicago. There were in this parade some who had actually been present upon the famous Midway 11 years ago. This procession with its diverse attractions gave delight to the crowds, which cheered it enthusiastically during the entire length of Its line of march.

MISS HELEN GOULD ARRIVES.

Miss Helen Gould arrived In the morning to take part in the opening ceremonies. She came with E. H. Harriman, a party of ladies being in Mr. Harriman's private car. Miss Gould was met at the Union Station by Mrs. Daniel Manning and a delegation of other members of the board of lady managers.

Bandmaster Innes, while leaving his hotel for the Fair Grounds to lead the massed bands for the music program at the opening ceremonies, was painfully injured by a trolley car. The carriage in which he was riding was wrecked. He was thrown out and for a time It was thought he was badly hurt. Physicians attended him. Mr. Innes insisted on continuing to the Fair Grounds and taking his part In the program.

By the explosion of the boiler in a 50 gallon coffee urn at the Inside Inn, at the Fair, three persons were burned by scalding coffee, including E. M. Statler, manager of the inn.