Chicago Tribune
Chicago
Illinois

BIG WORLD'S FAIR FORMALLY OPENS.

Ceremonies at St. Louis Reveal Wonderful Picture and an Exposition Well Advanced.

HUGE CROWD IS ON HAND.

Representative Men of the Nation and Notable Foreigners Unite to Make the Affair a Success.

CEREMONIES AT WORLD'S FAIR.

9 a.m. - Officials assembled and marched with bands and banners to the Louisiana monument.

10:30 a.m. - Keys of the Fair given over by director of buildings to World's Fair officials.

12:30 p.m. - Secretary of War Taft made closing address in behalf of President Roosevelt.

1 p.m. - Secretary Taft concluded his address and signal was flashed to the White House.

1:14 1/2 p.m. - Signal from White House started machinery of World's Fair.

1:15 p.m. - Water began to flow over cascades into lagoon.

3 p.m. - People of the Pike paraded the grounds. 

BY A STAFF CORRESPONDENT.

St. Louis, Mo., April 30. - Special. - Pouring over its guests an incomparable libation of enthusiasm, the city of St. Louis today in the Louisiana Purchase exposition added a new wonder to the world. 

The splendor did not leap forth full grown, but its birthday was one of glowing promise for an early future. The crowds of today did not expect perfection of detail. For them the beauty of design sufficed. In a large part they were St. Louisans, or else from nearby cities. They had watched for months the growth of the marvel. They knew that today they would see the external picture of the great buildings as nearly ideal as it could well be. That the buildings were not in shipshape did not trouble them. They can come again to see the exhibits.

Compares Well with Chicago.

Taking the exposition as a whole, as it appeared today, it is far ahead of the White City at the similar period in its history.

The externals are all to be seen in their full grandeur and it is only the details hidden away in the hearts of the gigantic structures that are open to deserved criticism. The world's fair today is a scene of almost stunning accomplishment and the picture is impressive.

A month from now the exposition will be worth a pilgrimage from the ends of the earth.

Formal Opening Well Managed.

The exposition was formally opened to the world after a series of ceremonies which were carried out with commendable precision and fidelity to the original outline.

A signal came from President Roosevelt over the wires which was to have been received at the moment when all the flags should fly, the bands play, and the water to pour over the cascades. The actual execution of this part of the program was, however, delayed only a few moments, and not long enough to cool the ardor of the crowd.

The management congratulates itself ucon the fact that the buildings look as grand as they should, that the weather was fine, that all the speakers were on hand, that there was an immense, good natured crowd, and that the transportation facilities were equal to the demands made upon them. 

Condition of the Fair Today.

The conditions inside the buildings on the opening day can be summarized as follows:

AGRICULTURAL BUILDING - Booths down the center aisle well filled for two-thirds of the way; side aisles partly unoccupied.

HORTICULTURAL BUILDING - Scattering exhibits; others moving in. 

MACHINERY HALL - Partly unfloored; machinery all in place to supply light and to operate cascades and pumping works.

TRANSPORTATION BUILDING - Large percentage of exhibits in place. 

ELECTRICITY BUILDING - Telegraph offices in operation and other departments moving along.

VARIED INDUSTRIES BUILDING - Gives promise of being fairly filled in a week.

MANUFACTURES BUILDING - Possibly 50 per cent of exhibits in place. 

MINES AND METALLURGY BUILDING - Forty per cent of exhibits in place. 

LIBERAL ARTS BUILDING - Work proceeding rapidly.

GOVERNMENT BUILDING - Complete.

FINE ARTS BUILDING - One of the foreign wings nearly complete. Center of building not entirely finished. 

STATE BUILDINGS - In various stages toward completion.

FOREIGN BUILDINGS - Some nearly complete, work pushing on others.

THE PIKE - 50 per cent of concessions ready for business, and other concessionaires who are behind rushing to catch up.

Attendance Over 100,000.

The opening can be summed up as successful. It brought over 100,000 into the grounds. How many more is not yet known. Mr. Francis at 6 o'clock made the personal estimate of 165,000. Later, when he heard that the figures of Chicago's opening day were placed at 183,000, he felt quite sure that more than the latter number were present.

The admission department estimated 200,000, but admitted it was a guess. Owing to green gate tenders, the count was slow and was not finished at a late hour.

Best of all, from the St. Louis standpoint, was that ability to handle the crowds was demonstrated. Masses were transported with comparative convenience, though the street car trip was long - forty-five minutes. Trains carried a portion of the out of town excursionists, but the majority employed the street cars.

In spite of the attendance the grounds were not uncomfortably crowded, except the plaza of St. Louis during the opening ceremonial. The rest of the space is so vast that an army could be scattered unnoticed among the avenues.

Of all the concourse probably not 5,000 persons heard the speakers of the day. Others could not get within earshot.