New-York Tribune
New York
New York

ST. LOUIS EXPOSITION OPENED.

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT STARTS THE MACHINERY FROM THE WHITE HOUSE.

Secretary Taft Speaks for the National Government — Ceremonies Witnessed by the Greatest Crowd Ever Known in St. Louis.

The Louisiana Purchase Exposition at St. Louis was formally opened yesterday afternoon with impressive ceremonies, and in the presence of a vast throng. 

President Roosevelt pressed a key in the White House that set the machinery in motion, and delivered a brief address.

On the exposition grounds addresses were made by Secretary Taft, as the personal representative of President Roosevelt; ex-Senator Carter, of the national commission; President Francis of the exposition company, Senator Burnham, Representative Tawney, Mr. Skiff, the director of exhibits; E. H. Harriman, representing the domestic exhibitors, and Michel Lagrave, Commissioner General for France, for the foreign exhibitors. A hymn written by E. C. Stedman was sung.

PRESIDENT STARTS IT.

Machinery at St. Louis Set in Motion from the White House.

Washington, April 30. - President Roosevelt today pressed the gold key which completed the electrical circuit and released the gigantic power of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition at St. Louis, putting in motion the 40,000-horsepower machinery and the cascades on the exposition grounds. The ceremony occurred in the East Room of the White House at precisely 1:14:30 o'clock, Eastern standard time. As the President pressed the key the 34 Battery of Artillery, stationed on the grounds of the Washington Monument, fired a national salute of twenty-one guns. Congratulatory messages were then exchanged between the President and David R. Francis, president of the exposition company. The ceremony was witnessed by a notable assemblage. Among those who were guests of the President in the East Room were the members of the Cabinet, except Secretary Taft, who is in St. Louis as the personal representative of the President; th« Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, Senator Frye, president pro tempore of the Senate; Speaker Cannon of the House of Representatives, ambassadors, ministers and other representatives of foreign governments; the Missouri delegation in Congress and prominent people in civil life. The Marine Band, stationed in the vestibule of the White House, furnished music.

Half an hour before the actual opening of the fair the invited guests assembled in the East Room, where arrangements for the ceremony had been completed. The telegraphic facilities were under supervision of Major Benjamin F. Montgomery, of the signal corps, chief of the telegraph and cipher bureau at the White House. Three circuits between the East Room and the Administration Building of the exposition were provided by the Postal Telegraph and Cable Company. One was installed as a circuit over which the President released the mechanical power of the exposition, another was employed for the interchange of messages and the third was held in reserve in case of the failure of either of the other two to work properly. The connections were made by insulated cables through the switchboard in the White House telegraph room. The mahogany table which supported the telegraph instruments was in the south end of the East Room. On it rested a small dais, covered with blue and gold plush, to the top of which was attached the gold key with which the President closed the circuit. The same dais and the same key have been used on several similar occasions. In 1893 President Cleveland used the key in starting the machinery of the Chicago Fair, and in 1898 it was used to start the exhibit of the American Electrical Institute. The key and dais have been in the possession of General E. S. Greely, President General of the Sons of the American Revolution. At the table, arranging the preliminaries, were Major Montgomery and E. W. Smithers, the chief operator of the White House. The St. Louis end of the circuits was directed by P. V. Degraw, the Eastern press agent of the exposition. A bell circuit connected the telegraph table with a signal bell on the roof of the White House. As the President pressed the key Major Montgomery pressed a bulb he held in his hand, that action ringing a bell on the roof. Instantly Private B. F. Hill, of Company B, of the signal corps, who stood there, dropped a flag, thus signalling the battery of artillery that the machinery of the fair had been started. The salute followed. The battery was in command of Captain Charles T. Summerall. First Lieutenant E. P. Nones and Second Lieutenant Henry P. Kilbourne.

THE OPENING EXERCISES.

Vast Crowd on the Grounds — Taft Makes the Principal Address.

St. Louis, April 30. — The Louisiana Purchase Exposition was formally opened at 1:04 o'clock this afternoon, with the ringing of bells, the music of bands, the strains of "The Star Spangled Banner," sung by a thousand voices, and the cheers of the greatest throng ever assembled in St. Louis.

Although the Weather Bureau predicted rain in the latter part of the day and lowering skies in the morning, St. Louis put forth her best and bravest efforts in honor of the opening of the great exposition. The morning was bright and the most was made of it. The official hour for the beginning of the exercises was 9 o'clock, when the officials of the exposition, members of the National Commission and the Board of Lady Managers were to meet at the Administration Building. Long before this time the grounds were filled with nearly half the population of the city, and the remainder were apparently thronging to the grounds. To the many thousands of the local population were added the crowds who came on excursion trains last night and this morning. Although no special effort was made by the management to secure a large attendance on the opening day, the crowd was fully as great as that which filled the grounds a year ago, when the exposition buildings were dedicated.

PROCESSION IN THE GROUNDS.

Promptly at the hour set the exposition officials, national commissioners and the board of lady managers assembled at the Administration Building, where they were formed into a procession and marched to the Plaza of St. Louis, in the centre of the grounds, where the formal opening exercises took place. At the head of the column was a detachment of the Jefferson Guards, who are to do police duty in the exposition grounds. Then came the Philippine Scouts' band, followed by the Philippine scouts, a good looking body of men, who marched well. Behind them, and leading the officers and directors of the exposition, came Sousa's Band. Next were the members of the national commission, and last of all, the board of lady managers, some of whom were on foot while others took carriages.

As the column entered the plaza a long line of representatives of foreign governments, who had assembled in the Hall of Congresses, came pouring into the plaza from another avenue. This column was headed by a detachment of Jefferson Guards, followed by a band. At the head of the line, immediately behind the musicians, were the members of the exposition committee on foreign relations, and then came commissioners and representatives of foreign governments which have ambassadors to the United States, marching in the order of presentation of credentials to the exposition. Next came representatives of governments having ministers accredited to the United States, and then a great number of other representatives of foreign governments and colonies, also in the order of the presentation of their credentials to the exposition. This column presented by far the gayest appearance of the day, for the foreigners made a prodigal display of gold lace and bright colors, in contrast to the black silk hats and dark frock coats worn by the officials of the exposition. A third column was formed of representatives of the States and Territories. 

Those who took part in the exercises quickly took their places at the base of the Louisiana Monument, where a small stand had been erected for the speakers and seats provided for the listeners. The assemblage was called to order without delay by David R. Francis, president of the exposition company, who requested the audience to rise, and the Rev. Dr. Frank W. Gunsaulus, of Chicago, delivered the invocation.