The San Francisco Call
San Francisco
California

Palaces Inspire Much Admiration.

Majestic Structures, Symmetrically Arrangedd, Show Richness of Architectural Detail.

The main group of exposition builldings in the northeastern part of the grounds consists of twelve great structures in symmetrical arrangement, somewhat in the form of a lady's fan, the avenues corresponding to the ribs. Eight of these palaces are upon a level sixty feet below the others, and as the visitor enters the broad central avenue which bisects the group he looks upon a view inspiring in its grandeur. Every building is truly majectic. The richness of architectural detail has never been equaled in exposition structures. The landscape has the finish of a vast garden with every feature pleasing to the eye. In the distance, more than half a mile away, rises the beautiful Hall of Festivals, 200 feet high, the central jewel of the beautiful architectural coronet which adorns the broad natural amphitheater that closes the picture. The sides of the coronet, stretching in graceful curves 759 feet each way from the Festival Hall are fifty-two feet high. They resemble a colonnade except that square pylons alternate with pairs of columns, forming fourteen sections of bays, in front of which upon the terrace, are fourteen great sculptured figures representing in allegory the fourteen States and Territories carved from the Louisiana Purchase. Three great cascades, the largest artificial creations of the kind ever made, pour down the slope from the center and the two sides. The slope is a formal garden richly adorned with flowers and shrubs, architectural and sculptured devices. Two beautiful refreshment pavilions of circular form 130 feet in diameter, are placed at the emds of the colonnades. The Festival Hall covers two acres. From this hall and from the terraces and pavilions a commanding view of the principal buildings may be obtained. On the same plateau beyond the Festival Hall are the three great palaces of art. The central one of this majestic trio is a permanent building, while all are of fireproof construction. There are 136 galleries in the three buildings. In the central building is an international hall of sculpture 94 by 157 feet, and an additional building for sculpture stands in a court formed by the three pavilions. The art group, including the court, covers nine acres. The United States Government building is apart from the main group upon another plateau east from the art buildings. It is a very large and splendid building, the largest ever erected by the Government at an exposition, being twice the length of the great Treasury building at Washington. The Government Fisheries pavilion stands near by.

The palaces are the variedd productions of the leading architects of the United States, designed in a chaste, harmonious scheme by these architects assembled as a commission. The style adopted by the commission is described as "a free treatment of the Renaissance."

The artistic sense finds further pleasing variety in the Tudor Gothic of the dozen permanent red granite buildings which form part of the World's Fair settlement. These buildings were crowning achievements of Philadelphia architects.

To give an aspect of life to the landscape decorations water features are used liberally. From the north side of the great Hall of Festivals at the brow of the hill which closes the picture on the southwest, a flood of water gushes fourth, spreading into a stream fifty feet wide. The first fall is twenty-five feet, then a series of cascades for a distance of 290 feet, with a total fall of ninety-five feet. At the grand basin the stream, divided into three parts, is 152 feet wide. At the sides are two great fountains, with cascades twenty feet wide at the top, and fifty feet wide at the point where the stream falls into the grand basin. All three of the streams flow into the cascade basin which forms a part of the lagoon system. The lagoons extend around and between the Education and Electricity buildings. They afford an important means of transit, giving a ride of a mile or more. In the courts of the buildings are fountains and pools. In these fountains the streams are from one and a half to three inches in diameter. They appear in the form of pillar jets, fans, bouquets, etc. The fountains require an average of 500 gallons each per minute.

The Universal Exposition of 1904 is especially an exposition of interest - of attraction - in its exhibit features. The remarkable advancement made in every line of invention and of scientific and industrial achievement and endeavor since the Chicago Exposition provides a field of marvels for exhibition at St. Louis which makes this exposition undoubtedly the most remarkable and interesting array of social activity and achievement ever presented to the world.

Education has been given first place among the departments of the exposition in accordance with the theory upon which its entire organization is based, viz., that education is the source of all progress. From the outset the object in selecting the educational exhibit has been to secure from the United States a thoroughly comprehensive and systematic presentation of the educational methods in this country, and to assemble for comparison and scientific study contributions from all foreign nations noted for educational progress. 

To this end the entire field of education has been surveyed and aubdivided into definite groups. The exhibits in the first group deal with elementary education, both public, private and parochial, followed by secondary education, as shown in high schools and academies. In "higher education" are included colleges, universities, scientific, technical and engineering schools and institutions, professional schools, libraries and museums.

Fine arts in education include art schools and institutes and departments of music and conservatories. The five largest art schools in the country occupy space.