The Washington Times
Washington
DC

EXPOSITION A CITY OF LIGHT

Gorgeous Night Scene on the Plaza, at the Illuminated Cascades and in Avenues of the Pike.

ELECTRICAL SCHEME GIVES SPLENDID EFFECTS IN COLOR

Simple and Impressive Exercises Mark the Opening of the Fair - Awaiting Impulse From Washington.

ST. LOUIS, Mo., April 30. - In a blaze of gorgeous multicolored lights, which appeared at a distance like an aurora borealis, the St Louis Exposition which was formally opened at 12:14 o'clock this afternoon is entertaining one of the greatest exposition crowds on record tonight. For months the managers of the fair have been dwelling upon the Illumination feature of the show In Forest Park and a great many man who did not visit the grounds this afternoon turned out tonight to view the spectacle.

Art Hill, with its magnificent screen, behind which could be seen the stately columns of the fine arts building and with the illuminated cascades pouring down Into the lagoon was the center of of attraction. This was designed to be the crowning glory of the electrical scheme, and many declared it the most impressive spectacle of the kind ever presented.

Illuminated Cascades.

The waters of the cascades were illuminated by a system of Incandescent lights cleverly concealed which were turned on In solid colors or in combinations of colors - some of the most popular effects being the violet and the amethyst these eliciting great great applause.

The phosphorescent effect was produced by the Introduction Into the waters of the cascades of Cooper-Hewitt tubes. The effect is best described as being similar to the falling of billions of glow worms into the lagoon.

Every other portion of the grounds was illuminated brilliantly, especially the Pike, which corresponds to the Midway at the Chicago Fair.

Hastening to St. Louis.

Every Incoming train tonight brings crowds of visitors and the hotels are already overflowing.

The visitors at the grounds tonight began their first real enjoyment of the wonders of the exhibits and amusements, the excitement incident to the opening having subsided.

The ceremonies this afternoon were impressive in the extreme.

Standing in the midst of a hundred thousand people his ears keen to the sound of the telegraph instrument which touched at Washington by President Roosevelt would set the wheels of exposition in motion, President Francis a few minutes before the heralded spark came raised his hands and said "Open ye portals, lift up ye gates, enter ye sons of men,

"See the achievements of our race learn from them the lesson which shall lead you to still greater achievements."

Spark From Washington.

Then came President Roosevelts touch of the button opening the exposition. After reading President Roosevelt's following the pressing of the button President Francis said:

"The meeting is adjourned. The exposition is opened." And the crowd scattered all over the grounds the most of them going to Art Hill where the beautiful cascades were now flowing.

At the Instant the waters were at liberty over the cascades the wheels of machinery in the palaces of machinery and transportation were set in motion.

The hum of mechanical life was heard through the vast classical structures.

Great circles of steel began to sing the song of progress.

As the wheels started to move a murmur of applause arose, which quickly swelled into a great cheer.

Secretary of War Taft representative of the President and as such the most conspicuous of the distinguished visitors was prompt in his arrival at the the speakers' stand in the plaza at St. Louis. He entered the grounds through the parade entrance strance near the Lindell Pavilion under escort of a squad of mounted police and two troops of the Fourth United States Cavalry.