The Baltimore Sun
Baltimore
Maryland

WORLD'S FAIR AT AN END

Hon. David R. Francis Highly Honored At Close.

THOUSANDS THRONG GROUNDS

President Delivers His Farewell Address - Lights Die Away to Darkness At Midnight.

Some Facts About Great Fair.

The Louisiana Purchase Exposition of St. Louis commemorates the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase of Louisiana Territory from France by President Thomas Jefferson in 1803.

The work of planning and building the Exposition lasted seven years.

The Fair opened May 1 and closed December 1.

The last day was called Francis Day, In honor of David R. Francis, the president, and it was declared a holiday, by Governor Dockery in recognition of the splendid work of the Exposition's chief executive.

Ex-President Cleveland and President Roosevelt attended the opening ceremonies, and President Roosevelt visited the Fair again last Saturday.

The total attendance will approximate 19,000,000, which is about 8,000,000 fewer than the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, although the railroads conveyed more visitors Into St. Louis than to Chicago, the difference being in local attendance.

The Fair received $5,000,000 from the Government. $5,000,000 from tho city and $5,000,000 from Individual stockholders. In addition It obtained a loan of $4,600,000 from the Government, which was repaid. 

It is believed that the stockholders will receive a dividend of about 6 per cent, which makes the Fair a financial success beyond expectations.

St. Louis, Dec. 1 - The Louisiana Purchase Exposition has endedd. The magnificent exposition, whose tendrils of interest have extended into every portion of the civilized world, bringing within the gates of St. Louis millions of visitors from throughout the entire world, has passed into history.

From the inception of a project to hold an exposition fittingly to commemmorate the one-hundredth anniversary of the purchase of the Louisiana Territory, until the portals were thrown open and the world was invited to enter and enjoy the completed exhibition, occupied a period of seven years.

The duration of the exposition has been seven months, and during that time nothing has occurred to throw a dampening effect on the Interest or to detract from the exposition. The best order has been maintained throughout; there have been a few fires, but all were of small moment, with the exception of the destruction of the House of Hoo Hoo and the destruction of the Missouri Building recently. The former was immediately rebuilt.

No loss of life has occurred during the exposition from accidents. The opinion has been expressed at all times, on all sides, and without reserve that the Louisiana Purchase Exposition has been a huge success.

The man probably most prominently known In connection with the World's Fair Is the president David R. Francis and it was deemed fitting that the final day should be designated as "Francis Day" in in his honor.

"My Life's Work," Says Francis.

"This exposition has been the work of my life," said President Francis. "It has consumed my entire time for the past four years but every hour has been an hour of pleasure to me. I have exhausted my stock of adjectives in trying to describe this fair. It is as difficult to do it Justice as It is to paint the lily."

The closing exercises were held at the base of the Louisiana Purchase Monument in the Plaza of St. Louis, where were held on May 1 the exercises which formally opened the gates to the world. Depression prevailed generally because the conclusion was at hand, and it was rather a mournful assemblage that formed a solid phalanx around the tall monument and listened to the farewell addresses. There was cheering, but It was the cheering of final leave-taking.

The principal speeches delivered were by Governor Dockery, of Missouri, and President Francis. Mayor Wells spoke briefly and introduced Governor Dockery. He said in part:

Governor Dockery Speaks,

"In bidding farewell to the World's Fair I want to pay a tribute to the kindly feeling expressed toward this exposition by the President of the United States. In the execution of this exposition we have been Americans and not partisans. We have united in doing everything possible to contribute toward its success and the President has shown unqualified Interest throughout.

"I want to pay a tribute to grand old Missouri. She has thrown open her arms In hospitality and extended a welcome to the world. I am proud of the fact that the brightest and most resplendent State given to the Union by Thomas Jefferson In the Louisiana purchase was the State of Missouri.

"The St. Louis Exposition takes a long stride toward the contest of the seas of which I now warn the nations. We don't intend to send our warships but we do intend to send our merchant ships and we will contest on the seas for the trade of the world. 

"We are going to whip In commerce If In no other way. After this exposition will come a better understanding among the nations and I trust will result In peace that Is universal."

Cheers For President Francis.

The Introduction of President Francis was greeted with an ovation of cheering. He said in part:

"I am dazed, If not dumb, from the manifestations and expressions of this day. The manner in which the people of St. Louis have united with practical unanimity to honor me is the more surprising because of the sense of unworthiness with which I am Imbued. With what I trust Is not unbecoming modesty I acknowledge my unspeakable obligation, and am sure you will not consider me wanting In appreciation when I say that the designation of this as 'Francis Day' Is intended more as an indication of your estimate of the Exposition, and as a tribute to the men whose unselfish labors for the success of this work have Inspired you with respect and gratitude.

"That the Governor of this Commonwealth and the Mayor of this city should Issue proclamations calling upon the people to abstain from their usual occupations; that the public and parochial schools and private schools should declare a holiday; that the marts of trade, the financial institutions and the commercial interests of a cosmopolitan city should close their doors, Is susceptible of no meaning other than that an intelligent people desire to show the value they place upon an undertaking whose beneficial and far-reaching result are beyond calculation.

Others Who Aided.

"While I cannot feel that any services I may have rendered merit the meed of praise you have conferred upon me, I do not question the sincerity of your expressions, but at the same time you must believe me when I say that your estimate of my services is far, very far, in excess of the work I have performed. An enterprise of this magnitude could only be accomplished by the united efforts of patriotic men working In harmony for a common end and making the achievement thereof paramount to any personal aggrandizement or selfish object."