Chicago Tribune
Chicago
Illinois

CITY OF IVORY SINKS TO SLEEP.

Mantle of Darkness Falls at Midnight on World's Fair in Hush of Sorrowing Throng.

FRANCIS' DAY OF TRIUMPH

Closing Hours of Mingled Joy and Grief Are Tribute to President Of the Exposition.

FIGURES AT ST. LOUIS FAIR.

Total attendance 18,767,457
Gross cost $44,500,000
Spent by company $22,000,000
Total revenue $25,000,000

St Louis, Mo., Dec. 1. - Specia1 - A chapter of glorious history for St. Louis was closed tonight at midnight when, in accordance with the law but surely not with the wishes of the people, the myriad lights of the Louisiana Purchase exposition faded out forever, and the greatest international fair in history became but a name. 

"Maddest, Merriest Day" of All.

The "maddest, merriest day" in all the exposition year closed on the stroke of 12 in the most dramatic and impressive manner. Standing at the foot of the Louisiana monument, which towered high above the Plaza St. Louis until the great white figure of peace was lost in the upper shadows, his face turned toward Art hill, down which the waters of the cascades rushed in triple torrents, President Francis, surrounded by the board of directors and officials, put coup de grace upon the noble work of their talents and energies.

Brilliant Lights Are Dimmed.

While the dense throng looked on in something like the hush that falls over great assemblages at crucial moments, with the subdued murmur of funmaking crowds on the Pike - the one discordant note - humming from the distance, President Francis turned the key on the switchbeard that changed the white, unblinking radiance of a million incandescent lamps to a deep orange glow.

Minaret and tower, roof line and outline, heroic figure in simulated marble, face of man and woman, rippling wave in lagoon fluttering banner and pennon, were lit as with the glimmer of sunset.

Darkness Falls O'er All.

Slowly the light faded, shadow overcame radiance. Tower and minaret disappeared in the enveloping darkness of a moonless night. 

Symbolical figures typifying the glorious growth of the country, its triumphs of war and peace, its victories of commerce and industry, its achievements in art and all the gentler walks of life vanished into the gloom.

The shadow of human emotion veiled the countenance of man and woman o'er the waning light blotted out the sea of upturned faces. Sorrow dethroned the glance of proud triumph, and tears washed away the smile of satisfied success.

Flags Take Wings; Waters Sleep.

The flags of all nations took unto themselves the wings of the night; the lagoons went to sleep, babbling gently as the brush of darkness wiped out the last mirrored reflection.

The City of Ivory by day and the City Of Flame by night was dying. 

Bugles Sound Requiem.

Solemnly, slowly, with military precision and deliberation, its requiem burst from the brazen throats of thirty bugles: Taps! As the last wailing note echoed and reechoed through noble avenues, through the colonnades and loggias of immense buildings, palaces were in shadows, the sable mantle fell, and the exposition became memory and History.

Goes Down with Colors Flying.

The expiring world's fair, which had lived a brief but glorious existence of seven months, to be the wonder and delight of the world went down with colors flying.

Although the prospects of the end of the exposition struck a universal note of melancholy and regret in all who had witnessed Its triumphs, both those participants who had contributed so well to its successes and the great throngs which gloried in It and sighed at its passing seemed determined on the last day to exhibit no outward sign of the grief that was In them.

Dressed as for Opening.

The great ivory city, so soon to be no more, was dressed as for its opening and the colors, music, and the gayety of the people gave no indication that it was open for the last day. To commemorate the closing day one of the greatest throngs of the seamon passed through the gates and every building was crowded to the utmost.

The crowd lingered from morning to midnight, loath to leave the scene. They thronged the wide and circling avenues, lanes, flower bordered paths, and the highways and byways of the exposition, drinking in for the last time all the beauties of a city more beautiful than any that had been known.

Worshipers Make Last Orisons.

Every well known spot on the cast 1,200 acres of the site was visited and revisited as a shrine by devotees who were making their orisons for the last time.

And all the day there was no act of the vast crowd to mar the closing of the exposition drama. Police precautions were not lacking, but, while wise, they were not necessary. It was a St. Louis crowd for the most part, and while they enjoyed to the top of their bent the last view of the living exposition their feelings were reverential. Its property was sacred and from them no bar need be feared.

Merry Throng on the Pike. 

All day long the Pike was thronged - thronged that progress through it was most like that of a center rush against a wail of an opposing line. It required main strength and push to make way through the crowd that packed the broad avenue and street of gayeties.