New-York Tribune
New York
New York

ST. LOUIS FAIR OVER.

CROWDS AT THE CLOSING.

Total attendance over 18,500,000 - Francis tells of his work.

St. Louis, Dec. 1. - The Louisiana Purchase Exposition has ended. From the inception of the project until the portals were thrown open occupied a period of seven years. The duration of the exposition has been seven months, and in that time nothing has occurred to throw a dampening effect on the interest or to detract from the exposition in any way. The best order has been maintained throughout; there have been a few fires but all were were of small moment with the exception of the destruction of the House of Hoo Hoo and the partial destruction of the Missouri building recently. The former was immediately rebuilt. No loss of life has occurred during the exposition from accidents.

The man probably most prominently known In connection with the World's Fair Is the president David R. Francis and it was deemed fitting that the final day should be designated as "Francis Day" in in his honor.

"This exposition has been the work of my life," said President Francis. "It has consumed my entire time for the past four years but every hour has been an hour of pleasure to me. I have exhausted my stock of adjectives in trying to describe this fair. It is as difficult to do it Justice as It is to paint the lily.

The closing exercises were held at the base of the Louisiana Purchase Monument in the plaza of St. Louis where were held seven months ago the exercises that formally opened the gates to the world. On the opening day the vast assemblage was buoyant In spirit and filled with a unanimous desire to give expression to good feeling; to-day depression prevailed generally because of the conclusion at hand and it was rather a mournful assemblage that formed a solid phalanx around the tall monument and listened to the farewell addresses. There was cheering but it was the cheering of final leave-taking and not the spontaneous outburst of enthusiasm.

The principal speeches delivered were by Governor Dockery of Missouri and President Francis. Mayor Wells spoke briefly and Introduced Governor Dockery. The introduction of President Francis was greeted with prolonged cheering. He said in part:

"While I cannot feel that any services I may have rendered merit the meed of praise you have conferred upon me, I do not question the sincerity of your expressions, but at the same time you must believe me when I say that your estimate of my services is far, very far, in excess of the work I have performed. An enterprise of this magnitude could only be accomplished by the united efforts of patriotic men working In harmony for a common end and making the achievement thereof paramount to any personal aggrandizement or selfish object. The directors of the exposition, the heads of its grand divisions, the chiefs of its departments, the commissions and boards representing the federal government, the foreign countries and the States of the Union participating in the exposition have co-operated in the exploitation, installation, and operation of a univeral exposition, which seems to have risen to the full measure of the ambitious plan upon which it was organized.

"It has been a serious work. All who have been engaged in it have been mindful of its import and have striven to perform their share, realizing that any dereliction on the part of one not only affected the labors of others, but would impair the perfection of the whole. The helpfulness and consideration invariably extended to the highest official was a natural outgrowth of fidelity to an undertaking for the success of which all co-workers cherished a deep responsibility.

"The results of this work cannot be adequately measured by the beauty of its landscapes, the grace and symmetry of its buildings, the comprehensiveness of its exhibits, the Intelligence of Its congresses, the elegance of its social features, nor by the ineffable pleasures conferred on Its patrons; but time will be required to demonstrate that the thought and the labor and the sacrifices that have have entered Into It were not ill advisedly bestowed. The compensation will continue to flow for at least a generation to come. Its influences will be felt and appreciated in widening circles as the years go by. It marks a new epoch In the intellectual and industrial advertisement of the world and the dawn of a new era In the International relations of governments and peoples.

"I tender you sincere thanks for this manifestation of your good will, which I shall ever hold in sweet remembrance. To have served our fellows with all the strength and ability granted to me is a duty the discharge of which is of itself sufficient reward. Those who can feel that their efforts have been devoted to the uplifting and the welfare of humanity are ever filled with a sense of regret that they could not have accomplished more. But, lest we forget, let us unite in expressing our gratitude to the Almighty God that throughout this work in which we have been engaged He has spared us from pestillence, preserved our health and strength and blessed us with prosperity. May this enterprise with which we have been connected for nearly seven years past, bring us still closer brotherhood with all the nations and all the peoples who have participated in it. May it deepen our patriotism. May it strengthen our love for a benign Providence that smiles upon us."

After the cheering following President Francis' speech had died away Festus J. Wade of St. Louis, a member of the board of directors, was Introduced and presented to President Francis a beautiful silver service as a token of esteem from the exposition management. A similar gift was presented to Treasurer William H. Thompson. Unfortunately Mr. Thompson was unable to participate as he was confined to his home with a severe cold. President Francis responded for him.

Promptly at 4 o'clock all the great exhibit palaces were closed and visitors were excluded. In the Palace of Agriculture onslaughts were made on some of the exhibits where the settings were composed of straw and fragile material, and for a time general demolition was threatened, but prompt action in effecting a general ejectment put a stop to the turmoil.

As the night drew on throngs concentrated in the main avenues to view for the last time the magnificent electric illumination. One solid stream of humanity swept through the Pike from end to end.

Over on Agricultural Knoll the great floral clock clicked off the minutes of the departing pageant and in the night rang out the tones of the massive bell as the midnight hour was tolled by the great clock. Instantly a hush seemed to pervade the entire grouns. The glowing electric bulbs slowly began dimming, the pulsations of the great engines that drove the cascades gradually died down. The light faded steadily, diminishing until only a faint glow was perceptible. There was darkness and the Louisiana Purchase Exposition has ended.

It is estimated that the attendance to-day was in the neighborhood of a record breaker, but it will not be known until the exposition has closed and the attendance figures officially announced. The official announcement last Sunday night showed that 18,317,457 addmissions have been recordedd since the exposition opened on April 30. The banner month's attendance was in September when the total attendance was 3,651,873. The largest single day's attendance was on September 15, when "St. Louis Day" was observed.

That every citizen of St. Louis might participate in the last day of the exposition and help observe "Francis Day," to-day was proclaimed a holiday by Mayor Wells. Governor Dockerly likewise had proclaimed throughout the state that to-day was especially set apart for paying final homage to the exposition and the crowds that poured into the city on the early trains attested to the fact that the proclamation was observed. A large number of business houses ceased operation to-day and the public schools were closed.