The San Francisco Call
San Francisco
California

VALE THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION!

GATES OF THE GREATEST OF WORLD'S FAIRS CLOSE.

Gloom a Feature of Francis Day

Special Dispatch to The Call.

ST. LOUIS, Dec. 1. — The Louisiana Purchase Exposition has ended. It passes into history as probably having comprised the most representative collection of resources, Industries, art, peoples and customs of the world ever assembled. From the inception of the project to hold an exposition to fittingly commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase of the Louisiana Territory until the portals were thrown open occupied a period of seven years. The duration of the exposition has been seven months, and in that time nothing has occurred to throw a dampening effect on the interest or to detract from the exposition in any way. The best order has been maintained throughout, and no loss of life has occurred during the exposition from accidents. 

The man probably most prominently known in connection with the World's Fair is the president, David R. Francis, and it was deemed fitting that the final day should be designated as "Francis day" in his honor.

"This exposition has been the work of my life," said President Francis. "It has consumed my entire time for the past four years, but every hour has been one of pleasure to me."

The closing exercises were held at the base of the Louisiana Purchase monument, in the plaza of St. Louis, where were held seven months ago the exercises that formally opened the gates to the world. On the opening day the vast assemblage was buoyant in spirit and filled with a unanimous desire to give expression to grood feeling; to-day depression prevailed generally, because the conclusion was at hand, and it was rather a mournful assemblage that formed a solid phalanx around the tall monument and listened to the farewell addresses. There was cheering, but it was the cheering of final leave-taking, and not the spontaneous outburst of enthusiasm.

TRIBUTE TO MR. ROOSEVELT.

The principal speeches delivered were by Governor Dockery of Missouri and President Francis. Mayor Wells spoke briefly and Introduced Governor Dockery who said in part:

"In bidding farewell to the World's Fair I want to pay a tribute to the kindly feeling expressed toward this exposition by the President of the United States. In the execution of this exposition we have been Americans and not partisans. We have united in doing everything possible to contribute toward its success and the President has shown unqualified Interest throughout.

"What lesson do we learn from this World's Fair? I learned the lesson long ago that the United States is the mightiest power known to the world to-day. These exhibit palaces are the incarnation of the mighty forces of this great republic. It Is no longer a question — the United States is a world power — and I want It to continue an enlarging world power. "The St. Louis Exposition takes a long stride toward the contest of the seas of which I now warn the nations. We don't intend to send our warships but we do intend to send our merchant ships and we will contest on the seas for the trade of the world. We are going to whip In commerce If In no other way. After this exposition will come a better understanding among the nations and I trust will result In peace that Is universal." 

The introduction of President Francis was greeted with an ovation of cheering. When quiet was restored he said:

"The results of this work cannot be adequately measured by the beauty of its landscapes, the grace and symmetry of its buildings, the comprehensiveness of its exhibits, the Intelligence of Its congresses, the elegance of its social features, nor by the ineffable pleasures conferred on Its patrons; but time will be required to demonstrate that the thought and the labor and the sacrifices that have have entered Into It were not ill advisedly bestowed. The compensation will continue to flow for at least a generation to come. Its influences will be felt and appreciated in widening circles as the years go by. It marks a new epoch In the intellectual and industrial advertisement of the world and the dawn of a new era In the International relations of governments and peoples. 

"It Is a credit for any State to have had such a gathering within Its borders and a glory to any city to have been the scene of such an assembling. It has brought all countries closer together and has elevated the world.

"Those who have been engaged In the work will never cease to look back to it with pride. All who have shared In the spirit of the undertaking have had their views enlightened, their tastes cultivated and their sympathies broadened. The millions of visitors who have entered these gates have, by their presence, encouraged this band of workers and let us hope have taken away pleasant recollections of their experiences.

"The distinguished guests whom we have entertained have, by their words of encouragement and manifestations of interest, lightened our labors and Incited us to renewed efforts. All who have come have contributed toward the consummation of an understanding upon which this outpouring of people at the end of the task stamps the approval of the people of St. Louis and of Missouri.

"May this enterprise with which we have been connected for nearly seven years past, bring us still closer brotherhood with all the nations and all the peoples who have participated in it. May it deepen our patriotism. May it strengthen our love for a benign Providence that smiles upon us."

SCENES OF CLOSING NIGHT.

After the cheering following President Francis' speech had died away beautiful silver tea services, as tokens of esteem from the exposition management, were given to Francis and Treasurer William H. Thompson.

Promptly at 4 o'clock all the great exhibit palaces were closed and visitors were excluded. In the Palace of Agriculture onslaughts were made on many of the exhibits, where the settings were composed of straw and fragile materials, and for a time general demolition was threatened, but prompt action in effecting a general ejectment put a stop to the threatened turmoil.

As the night drew on throngs concentrated In the main avenues to view for the last time the magnificent electric illumination. One solid stream of humanity swept through the Pike from end to end. The spirit of revelry was there. Never since the opening had more enlivenment been shown at night on the grounds.

Steadily the white electric bulbs silhouetted the exhibit palaces against the night; periodically the illumination of the Terrace of States surmounting Festival Hall changed from white to red, then to green and then back to, white. Over on Agricultural Knoll the great floral clock clicked off the minutes of the departing pageant, and in the night rang out the tone of the massive bell as the midnight hour was tolled by the great clock.

Instantly a hush seemed to pervade the entire grrounds. The glowing electric bulbs slowly began dimming, the pulsations of the great engines that drove the cascades gradually died down. The light faded steadily, diminishing until but a faint glow was perceptible. Suddenly there was darkness, and the Louisiana Purchase Exposition had passed into the chronicles of history. 

CROWDS STRIP EXHIBITS.

Everything Detachable Regarded as Legitimate Plunder.

BY PAUL EDWARDS.

ST. LOUIS, Dec. 1. — Battened down so as to withstand as far as possible any ordinary storm of humanity, California's exhibits went through their last day at the World's Fair. All cereal and fruit exhibits in the Palaces of Agriculture and Horticulture were deemed legitimate prey by the mob, and California was expected to supply the most plunder. The exhibitors from that State had put everything of value out of sight. Everything detachable that remained In view was swept away.

The oranges and peanuts used in decorating the pillars of the facade were stripped off clean as far as hands could reach. Some of the oranges were three months old, and the peanuts had been there ever since the fair opened. Everything in the way of a cereal throughout the exhibit was snatched. Well-dressed women struggled for bunches of dust-covered barley or wheat; heads of kaffir corn were great prizes, while a pampas plume was to be fought for. Hordes of school children cleaned up what the grown folk did not deem worth while carrying away, but that was very little.

Some small Jars of processed vegetables were stolen. The contents may benefit some doctor financially. One woman started away from the California building with a pillow, and seemed surprised when made to give it up.

There was an unusual Jam all day long at the San Francisco building. To-morrow the hammers will ring among the exhibits, and the Californians will race to see who gets home first.

Now that the great exposition has closed its seven months of gigantic existence and is ready to bow itself before the ax of the wrecker, all those who have labored within its gates for the good of California have a feeling of pride when they look back upon their work and contemplate the results It has produced and will produce. California has a right to be proud of these representatives and should be gratified at what they have wrought. A resume of the efforts put forth here by the various representatives of California shows only that which is creditable and praiseworthy — shows only results that are pleasing. They have all worked earnestly and intelligently, and every section of the Golden State, from the northern to the southern boundary, will feel the results and acquire more population and wealth.

The California State commissioners, J. A. Filcher and Frank Wiggins, while they have not gone in for social functions, have Installed and maintained excellent State exhibits in the various exhibit palaces, which have been in charge of hard-working employees and have been inspected and admired by a large proportion of the millions who have visited the fair. The California building, while It has never been the scene of any brilliant receptions, has been visited by many thousands of people of all classes, who have partaken of punch dispensed there, received'literature concerning the State, viewed stereopticon pictures of all sections of it and even eaten their luncheons on the. porches. All Californians upon registering have been given badges, and these have been prominent all over the fair grounds.

Perhaps the greatest advertisement the State has received here has been through the collective counties exhibits in the Palaces of Agriculture and Horticulture. The county representatives in charge of these have worked tirelessly and with the utmost harmony, and the good done by the handsome displays of products, the literature and the verbal Information given visitors, cannot be estimated. It will show in the future even greater than it Is showing now, and its effects may be felt for years.

Besides their work at their exhibits, the county commissioners have found time to deliver stereopticon lectures daily at the California building. Seven of these lectures were given daily, the county men taking their turns, up to November 26. More than 1500 people a day heard these lectures and saw the pictures.

At the San Francisco building the labors in behalf of California have been worthy of the highest praise. Preliminary credit must be given to Charles P. Wilcomb, custodian of the museum at Golden Gate Park, who Installed the handsome exhibit in such a way as to make the most of it and show It all off to the best advantage. All who have seen his work have praised it. Upon his departure J. W. Erwln became the San Francisco commissioner and his labors in behalf of California and its metropolis have brought out the highest praise and given the committee in charge of the building the fullest satisfaction. Erwin has worked untiringly. Besides attending to the affairs of the building and mingling with the visitors to give information, he has delivered more than 400 stereopticon lectures In the hall, addressing while here nearly 75,000 people, all of whom were greatly pleased with the pictures and the talks accompanying them. Nearly 2000 school children, brought especially by their teachers, were among the hearers of these lectures. Erwin by invitation, will lecture on California at several large churches in St. Louis while the work of packing the San Francisco exhibit is In progress.

As on board the fighting craft the man behind the guns must not be forgotten, so In stereopticon lectures the expert handler of the lantern and slides must not be overlooked. Al Williams, who was especially employed to handle the lantern at the San Francisco building, has done his work with a smoothness that has been a great factor In adding to the popularity of the lectures there. George Marsh, in charge of the Oriental exhibit, and William Wheatley, in charge of the redwood art furniture display, have also done their work well and interested many people.

Commissioner Erwin has sometimes delivered as many as five lectures a day, but the usual number was three. There have been days when he could have had 500 people at each lecture. The hall held but 200, and many times, the crowd was backed up against the wall of the corridor outside the entrance.

Educationally California has been prominent at the fair, to her lasting good. She seized the opportunity to show the world she stood on a par with any locality on the globe as far as educational advantages were concerned and succeeded In doing so. Robert Furlong, the veteran educator of Marin County, who has superintended the California educational exhibit has" mingled with the learned men in charge of the other exhibits in the Palace of Education, and has shown them the high plane on which California stands as far as her schools and colleges are concerned. The exhibit made by the University of California has been a great credit and aid to the State.

F. A. Haber, in charge of the wine exhibit, has talked in the interest of California vintages to people from all parts of the country, many of whom have sent orders for cases of the goods, after finding by sample how excellent these wines are. He negotiated the sale made by the California Commission to the Missouri Athletic Club of St. Louis of all the exhibit wines sent on by the dealers who exhibited. Many prominent men of St. Louis will sample these wines and the placing of them in the club will help place them in homes all over St. Louis.

In a few days the space occupied by California's exhibit in the Palace of Agriculture will present but a desolate array of stripped pavilions, ready to be torn down by the wreckers, but the influence of that exhibit will not die for many years to come.

California's exhibits In the Palaces of Agriculture and Horticulture have been the largest and most beautiful In those buildings and the fair officials have appreciated them. President Francis said concerning the exhibits of the Golden State: 

"California has made splendid displays at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition and I am sure she will reap much benefit from them. Her exhibits of fruits, wines and other products that show the glories of her soil and climate have attracted great attention. California can always be counted on to make exhibits that are worthy the fair visitor's time, attention and praise."