The Washington Post
Washington
DC

GREAT FAIR AT END

Immense throng saw lights out at midnight.

Seven months of success.

Money to pay all expenses, but stockholders will get nothing.

Closing day named in honor of Exposition's chief - He tells of world-wide influence of exposition in farewell address. - Gov. Dockey thanks President Roosevelt for his kindly interest in the Fair. - Final Ceremonies.

St. Louis, Dec. 2. - A brief but Impressive ceremony held at the base of the Louisiana Purchase Monument concluded the World's Fair at midnight. President D. R. Francis accompanied by a number of the officials of the exposition congregated In the Impromptu rostrum. With the words "Farewell a long farewell to all your greatness," President Francis touched a small lever and instantly the illumination throughout the grounds ceased. The exposition was at an end. 

From the inception of a project to hold an exposition fittingly to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the purchase of the Louisiana territory until the portals were thrown open and the world was Invited to enter and enjoy the completed exhibition of the world's life occupied a period of seven years. The duration of the exposition has been seven months and during that time nothing has occurred to throw a dampening effect on the Interest or to detract from the exposition In any way. The best order has been maintained throughout; there have been a few fires but all were were of small moment with the exception of the destruction of the House of Hoo Hoo and the partial destruction of the Missouri building recently. The former was immediately rebuilt. No loss of life has occurred during the exposition from accidents. St. Louis has proffered her most gracious hospitality to the world and It has been accepted.

Fair a Great Success.

Throngs of visitors have poured In to attend the exposition with the expectation of being pleased and satisfied. They have departed amazed and gratified. The opinion has been expressed at all times, on allsides, and without reserve that the Louisiana Purchase Exposition has been a success. Congratulatory messages were received In large numbers from all parts of the country and from from abroad conveying felicitations upon the the success of the exposition.

The man probably most prominently known In connection with the World's Fair Is the president David R. Francis and it was deemed fitting that the final day should be designated as "Francis Day" in in his honor.

The closing exercises were held at the base of the Louisiana Purchase Monument in the plaza of St. Louis where were held seven months ago the exercises that formally opened the gates to the world. On the opening day the vast assemblage was buoyant In spirit and filled with a unanimous desire to give expression to good feeling; to-day depression prevailed generally because of the conclusion at hand and it was rather a mournful assemblage that formed a solid phalanx around the tall monument and listened to the farewell addresses. There was cheering but it was the cheering of final leave-taking and not the spontaneous outburst of enthusiasm. The principal speeches delivered were by Gov. Dockery of Missouri and President Francis.

Mayor Wells spoke briefly and Introduced Gov. Dockery who said In part:

Tribute to Roosevelt. 

"In bidding farewell to the World's Fair I want to pay a tribute to the kindly feeling expressed toward this exposition by the President of the United States. In the execution of this exposition we have been Americans and not partisans. We have united in doing everything possible to contribute toward its success and the President has shown unqualified Interest throughout.

"The St. Louis Exposition takes a long stride toward the contest of the seas of which I now warn the nations. We don't intend to send our warships but we do intend to send our merchant ships and we will contest on the seas for the trade of the world. We are going to whip In commerce If In no other way. After this exposition will come a better understanding among the nations and I trust will result In peace that Is universal."

The Introduction of President Francis was greeted with an ovation of cheering. After expressing his appreciation of the manner in which the people of St. Louis had united to honor him, President Francis said:

"This exposition has been the work of my life. It has consumed my entire time for the past four years but every hour has been an hour of pleasure to me. I have exhausted my stock of adjectives in trying to describe this fair. It is as difficult to do it Justice as It is to paint the lily.

Scope of the Enterprise.

"The results of this work cannot be adequately measured by the beauty of its landscapes, the grace and symmetry of its buildings, the comprehensiveness of its exhibits, the Intelligence of Its congresses, the elegance of its social features, nor by the ineffable pleasures conferred on Its patrons; but time will be required to demonstrate that the thought and the labor and the sacrifices that have have entered Into It were not ill advisedly bestowed. The compensation will continue to flow for at least a generation to come. Its influences will be felt and appreciated in widening circles as the years go by. It marks a new epoch In the intellectual and industrial advertisement of the world and the dawn of a new era In the International relations of governments and peoples."

After the cheering following President Francis' speech had died away Festus J. Wade of St. Louis, a member of the board of directors, was Introduced and presented to President Francis a beautiful silver service as a token of esteem from the exposition management. A similar gift was presented to Treasurer William H. Thompson. Unfortunately Mr. Thompson was unable to participate as he was confined to his home with a severe cold. President Francis responded for him. Promptly at 4 o'clock all the great exhibit palaces were closed and visitors were excluded.