The Owensboro Messenger
Owensboro
Kentucky

World's Fair Notes

Hungary has announced her intention of participating in the Olympic Games at the World's Fair.

The Illinois Naval Reserve will camp at the World's Fair from August 13 to 20 inclusive.

The Intra-Mural railway at the World's Fair is finished and a satisfactory test has been made. The system includes 14 miles of track, all within the grounds. The visitor may reach any point of the exposition for one fare.

Miss Margaret McFarland of New Athena, O., has offered the World's Fair authorities for an exhibit, the old school teacher's desk from the school room where General Custer taught. Her father bought the desk when the old school house was torn down.

A model public library is a feature in the Missouri building at the World's Fair. The library consists of 100,000 volumes, contributed by publishers of current, standard and reference literature. It includes special books written by Missiourians.

"This Exhibit Will be Ready on the Opening Day," is a legend that appeals in big red letters above the portal of Idaho's pavilion in the Palace of Agriculture at the World's Fair. Superintendent Wessells has created a unique and beautiful design, that is worked out in an artistic manner with Idaho's products of the soil. 

One of the largest and most interesting collections of orchids ever seen in America is shown in the Philippine section of 40 acres at the World's Fair. Many of the varieties have never before been seen outside the jungles of the archipelago. 

A feature of the Idaho exhibit which has been installed in the Palace of Mines and Metallurgy at the World's Fair is a splendid collection of gold nuggets found in the placer mines of the state. These nuggets are made into stock pins and ornaments and are sold as souvenirs.

A souvenir button has been issued by the Georgia World's Fair commission. On the face of the button is the picture of the home of the late Gen. A. J. Gordon, which is reproduced as the Georgia State building at the World's Fair. The buttons are being sold throughout the state for fifty cents each and the money placed toward completing the necessary funds for the Georgia building.

Elk's Day at the World's Fair will be July 26.

The twin central towers on the Machinery Palace at the World's Fair are 265 feet high. 

A Colorado Springs, Colo., pottery company will exhibit over forty barrels of pottery at the World's Fair.

Count von Limburg-Stirum of the Prussian ministry of education has been selected to represent that ministery at the World's Fair. 

An unique tablecloth will be exhibited at the World's Fair by Miss Ella Barrett, of Solomon, Kansas. The cloth is two yards square and valued at $5,000. In two corners are displayed ears of corn and in the remaining two are sheaves of wheat. In the center is the seal of Kansas. All are done in the finest needlework.

One of the largest and most expensive mineral collections in existence, owned by John F. Campion, of Leadville, Colo., will be a part of Colorado's exhibit at the World's Fair. The collection is valued at $250,000. The bullion value of it alone is $80,000. It has never been placed on exhibition before.

Among the curious antique firearms exhibit that the government will make at the World's Fair is the old percussion rifle carried by Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederate States of America, when he was taken prisoner by troops under General Nelson A. Miles in May 1865. The gun was presented to President Davis by a French friend and admirer, P. Devisme, of Paris. 

The Manhattan Trade School for girls of New York has prepared a complete and comprehensive exhibit for the World's Fair. It covers every kind of work from the needle to the foot and electric power machine, and those trades that depend upon expert use of paste or glue. Each department will be represented at the Fair by twelve leaf cabinets, made up of forty mounted frames, in which are shown every phase of academic, hand and machine work that finds place in the shops and factories where women are employed. 

A wonderful exhibit of English embroidery which will be seen at the World's Fair is an altar cloth of magnificent design and workmanship. The cloth is composed of the finest English silk damask, in shades of yellow, and bears the medieval figure of a saint. In front of this is a large panel, before which stands the figure of an angel. Pure gold threads worked into the background representing the sun, and surrounding this is sketchery of delicate, but intense blue, to represent the sky.