The Wilsonton Journal
Wilsonton
Kansas

The Opening Day

Special Correspondence to the Wilsonton Journal

No one could have ordered a more beautiful day. The sun came up in all its glory and after previous dreary days April 30 was ideal.

Over 187,000 people took advantage of such an opportunity and the turnstiles clicked rapidly all day, but at no time was the crowd unmanageable, demonstrating beyond a shadow of a doubt that the entrance and transportation facilities will be ample for twice the number. The ceremonies immediately connected with the opening of the fair took place on the plaza St. Louis, shadowed by the Louisiana monument, flanked on either side by the palace of varied industries and the transportation building. The grand stand was erected on the steps of the Louisiana monument in clear view of the cascades. The latter will be to the St. Louis fair what the electric fountains were to the Columbian exposition. Quite a number of prominent men made speeches, the most noted being those of Secretary Taft, who was President Roosevelt's proxy, and President Francis, to whose work a great amount of credit is due for the wonderful achievement and who must have felt a great relief to see his labor so near completion. At exactly the hour of 12 a telegram was sent to President Roosevelt and he touched the key that let loose the electric current which set the big wheels of the exposition moving. Almost immediately the water came rushing down the cascada and went its way into the canal, furnishing a modern Venice, in which variegated gondolas floated at leisure. The buildings are mostly completed and the exhibits are being installed as quick as modern devices and human skill can accomplish it, and but a few days will elapse when the grandest and most wonderful sight the world has ever seen will be within the reach of most everyone. The attendance on the opening day was 40,000 greater than on the first day of the Columbian exposition. Very few people, comparatively, will ever have the chance and means to travel abroad. Here is an opportunity to see in a few days what many people never see who circumvent the globe many times. Some noted authority has said that it would be a good idea to do without one meal a week and buy a pretty picture a year. It is but another way of saying that we can sometimes make a sacrifice of some immaterrial things in order to possess the more lasting - "that which is balm for the soul and food for the brain." No one will ever regret doing without a great many things in order to see this greatest of displays that the world has ever seen or will see in many decades.